MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episodes of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons!
SAM: Yay!
MATT: We have returning this week our fantastic
guests, Ashly Burch and Sumalee Montano. They've
been amazing, we're excited to have them back, and
going to see what this next adventure of the
story's going to have. Before we get to that, we
have some announcements to get through, beginning
with our fantastic sponsor and friends at D&amp;D
Beyond. Sam?
SAM: D&amp;D Beyond, everybody, two new products have
been announced on D&amp;D Beyond. The Guildmaster's
Guide to Ravnica, alternate title is That's So
Ravnica, available for preorder now on the D&amp;D
Beyond marketplace, officially will be released on
November 9th. Also, The Wayfarer's Guide to
Eberron, alternate title, The Werfernder's Gerd to
Erberron, available for purchase now on the D&amp;D
Beyond marketplace. As a reminder, anyone who
already has purchased the Legendary bundle can
pre-order or purchase these and any future content
at a 15% discount, everyone. Which has the savings
baked right in. I've been using D&amp;D Beyond for a
while now, and they just redid their layout, took
me a while to get used to it. For those of you at
home using D&amp;D Beyond, I have a couple of tips,
pointers, for the new layout, to remind myself
where things are layed out. It's like little
mnemonics. It's a weird thing. On the right side
of the screen, you can remember "L E F," so right
sort of like, LEF, left, sort of. That's where
loot, equipment and features are. On the left, is
"I A A," insight and awareness. I'll put that down
here. Then in the middle, is "A T R," which is
things you can add to roll. ATR.
LIAM: I have a mounting sense of dread.
SAM: Right up top is "M S T," which is makes
saving throws. That's what you add to make saving
throws. That's Sam's little guide to how you can
remember the layout of D&amp;D Beyond. And that's it!
MATT: Thank you, Sam! I hope that was as useful to
you folks as it will never be to any of us. Thank
you to D&amp;D Beyond for being our awesome sponsor.
Onto the next bit of business. For those who
haven't seen the announcement we had today, we are
headed to London MCM Comic Expo in October,
actually. October 27th and 28th, Critical Role
will be in London! Super excited about that. We're
looking forward to meeting a lot of you European
Critters out there. We've been trying to get an
opportunity to go over there for a while, so glad
we finally have the chance to come and hang out
with you folks across the pond. You can go to
critrole.com for details on it, and we look
forward to seeing you then. Also, as a reminder
for next week, we will not be broadcasting an
episode next Thursday. Instead, we'll be doing a
live broadcast Friday evening from Indianapolis.
It will be airing, this is Friday, August 3rd, at
9:00pm Eastern time, that's 6:00pm Pacific. So
it'll be an hour earlier than what you are used
to, but it'll be our live show at the Murat
Theater in Indianapolis. Super excited about that.
It's going to be crazy. It's going to be
absolutely nuts. Other than that as well, we have
up on our YouTube channel now the VOD of our Vox
Machina character buildout for Pillars of Eternity
II: Deadfire. I went ahead and messed around on
stream for about an hour or so earlier this week
to show you guys my interpretation of building our
first campaign characters, Vox Machina, in Pillars
of Eternity II: Deadfire, and if you want to check
it out, it's on the YouTube. That's
youtube.com/criticalrole, and you get to watch me
make each character, and we hang out.
SAM: I watched part of it.
MATT: Did you really?
SAM: It was pretty good, and I might watch it
again so I can actually build those characters.
MATT: I think you should, that surprised me. I've
never really done a live stream of just myself
playing a video game before, so that was very new
experience for me. Thank you for your patience. Go
check it out if you want to. Be sure to check out
the Beast of Winter DLC for Deadfire is coming out
soon. You can pick up the game at
versesevil.com/criticalrole, and it's a fun one,
so check it out if you haven't yet. Reminder that
we do our Wyrmwood giveaways during the breaks,
and they're going to be happening over here at the
Critical Role Twitch chat, so I'll prompt you when
we come to our mid break today, but we need you to
come over to the Critical Role chat to enter the
giveaway, and then head on back to Geek &amp; Sundry,
or wherever else you're watching. That'll be at
twitch.tv/criticalrole. Talks Machina, our after
show discussion about what happens this week will
be happening next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, here
on the Geek &amp; Sundry Twitch and Alpha, where our
fantastic host Brian W. Foster interviews us, and
makes us feel a little better about ourselves
after the chaos the previous week had.
SAM: I thought you were going to say makes us feel
a little uncomfortable.
MATT: That was the subtext I was going to go into,
but I'll leave that for you, Sam. I believe that's
all I have--
SAM: There's no merch, there's nothing merchy?
MARISHA: We made announcements online.
LIAM: There's brand-new merch, GenCon.
SAM: I'm trying to honor the memory of Laura.
MATT: It's true!
MARISHA: We're trying to get better at spercing
our announcements out through other things.
MATT: So we're not barraging the audience.
SAM: So me talking right now is just wasting
time.
MATT: Yeah, essentially, yeah.
SAM: Cool, cool cool.
MATT: If you are curious about any merch stuff, we
do have some new merch coming up at GenCon. You
can go check it out at critrole.com for all the
details.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: We've got some other fun surprises for folks
that are coming, too. Anyway, much love, I think
it's time--
LIAM: Oh, so tense.
MATT: That we dive into tonight's episode of
Critical Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Welcome back, everyone. Last we left off,
The Mighty Nein, who had acquired two new allies
in Keg, the dwarven fighter, and Nila, the firbolg
druid, had made their way to the city of
Shadycreek Run. After making your way through the
town, spending an evening staying at the
Landlocked Lady, and getting some information
about where to find info about your quarry, and
where your friends may have been taken to after
they were captured by the Iron Shepherds, a
traveling slavers crew.
SAM: They're the worst.
MATT: They are the worst. You went and had a
discussion at the Estate Sybaritic with Ophelia
Mardun, of whom you were sent by The Gentleman to
interface with and do a deed for her a little over
two weeks ago. There it seemed that the intent of
your job placed here in this city has aligned with
your current goal of freeing your friends and
seeking vengeance against the Iron Shepherds, as
they currently work for a competitive family to
the Mardun house, and in response to them
destroying parts of the trade route that the
Mardun family enjoys through the center and
southern sides of the empire, they wish you to
instill damage upon their traders as well, by
eliminating the Iron Shepherds. You were given
some ideas as to where you might find some help,
you gathered your things, made your way north into
the seemingly corrupted and haunted Savalierwood,
to seek information about these Iron Shepherds and
where they are. You narrowly avoided two large,
immensely mutated, bone-spurred bear creatures.
You sought out and cased the exterior of the Sour
Nest, which is the fortress that was given to the
Iron Shepherds by the family that pays them and
keeps them in their employ. You decided to send
your new druid friend, Nila, in the form of a
small mouse, over the wall, delivery via owl. She
snuck through some portions of the fortress to
gather intel, and to get an idea of where you were
going and what may reside within. A few close
calls, and some discovery of what can be expected
within the interior, you made your way back,
safely, to join your friends.
ASHLY: I forgot about the baby. (sigh)
SAM: Oh yeah.
ASHLY: Sorry, the meal that Lorenzo was having.
MARISHA: Oh, yeah.
ASHLY: Sorry. That just occurred to me.
MATT: Upon accidentally spooking one of the outer
guards who were walking the perimeter of the wall
that surrounds the Sour Nest, you immediately
picked up what you had, fled south, back through
the Savalierwood, on your way to Shadycreek Run to
look for means of possibly finding more help for
this endeavor when nightfall hits, and whatever
else you can do to prepare for the necessary
evacuation of your allies. And that's where we
left off. Mighty Nein, as you've charged back
through the purplish-gray corrupted Savalierwood,
the midday sun barely visible through slight
peaking cracks through the canopy above you,
leaping and hearing these large growling sounds
and hoots, you beeline it as best you can, and as
quickly as you can, before you breach into the
outskirts of the northern side of the North Clover
area. You're now between some of the nearby
buildings, and you immediately begin to see some
of the relatively shady denizens of this north
side of Shadycreek Run that glance over their
shoulder, their hooded selves watching you as you
pass. You slow your gait, as you are no longer
fleeing, per se, but you have made your way back
to the town. What would you like to do?
SAM: What time is it?
MATT: At this point it would be midday, a little
bit in the afternoon.
SAM: Okay. Oh god! It's midday! What do we do?
ASHLY: We're trying to gather allies right?
MARISHA: Yeah.
ASHLY: That's the plan.
LIAM: Yeah, and we don't have all the time in the
world because we are trying to intervene before
the worst happens.
MARISHA: We mentioned about going and looking to
see if a Tasker would be up to it. There were the
Taskers, and there were the other group of hired
workers.
MATT: Yes, The Grunge Gang-- The Grudge Gang,
which the Taskers are a part of it.
SAM: Wait, is is Grudge or Grunge?
MATT: Grudge.
SAM: Can I just say Grunge is better name?
MARISHA: Is it like, the Grudge Gang is an
umbrella corporation of the Taskers, or vice versa?
MATT: Vice versa. The Grudge Gang is the
overarching, loose network of mercenaries that
sell swords and do not affiliate directly with any
of the other political powers. They're all just
outside of the system within the town. The Taskers
are a small subsect of the Grudge Gang that have
taken it upon themselves to keep the peace to a
certain extent.
LIAM: Do we get a sense of the Taskers, are they
just a group, like us? Like a small group, or we
don't know yet?
MATT: Well, you don't know. You've had some
experience here. The Taskers, best that you can
surmise, you haven't had a lot of dealings with
them, they are probably in the neighborhood of 30
to 35 people. They are not a massive group by any
means, and they're stretched a little thin, but
because a lot of them have friends within the
Grudge Gang, and people they've worked with
before, they can usually call upon friends if need
be, especially if they have some coin to their
side and they have a specific endeavor they need
to do.
ASHLY: Well?
SAM: Do you think we should go talk one, chat one
up?
ASHLY: It seems like the best option to me. I'm
not sure who else we could turn to.
MARISHA: I mean, just to play devil's advocate
here, is it an issue if we get a hired mercenary
group to kill another underground faction in their
same town? Is that--
ASHLY: Could it trace back to Ophelia, is that
what you are saying?
MARISHA: Yeah, I don't know, it's a weird
political issue, hiring someone in the system.
SAM: Maybe before we go randomly hiring people:
what do we need to make this attack? We can
probably get in. Also, we're not attacking, right?
We're just going to go and try to rescue, or maybe
pick off one or two of them, or smoke them out, so
that the prisoners, or whatever, have to leave and
we can rescue, right? We're not trying to kill
everyone in the motherfucking house, right?
MARISHA: Well this Ophelia wants us to kill
everyone in the motherfucking house.
SAM: Well I just want to get our people out.
LIAM: Then we are not fulfilling our
responsibilities.
SUMALEE: It will be impossible to save our friends
without killing them.
MARISHA: I think she's right.
LIAM: We go at night, and the first step is taking
care of the two, there could be more, but two that
we saw on the wall, whoever is on the wall at
night, silently. Then, from all you've told us, we
have-- this might be incomplete information-- but
three. There is the shithead himself, and then two you saw.
SUMALEE: At least two eating.
LIAM: So three total that we know about.
SUMALEE: But there were many more beds.
MARISHA: Plus, who knows who could arrive in the
time that we're gone.
LIAM: That is also correct.
MARISHA: I think we need to be prepared for all of
them.
SAM: But are we going to hire muscle, or magic, or
what are we trying to get? What helps us?
MARISHA: I miss Jester's healing spells.
SAM: Maybe there's a place to buy some potions.
ASHLY: Well it seems like-- I mean, I'm not the
stealthiest person. It seems like having more
numbers is a good thing. I don't know if we could
create a distraction of some kind, lead some of
them away. I don't know.
SUMALEE: I can do that. I'm good at that.
ASHLY: Diversions?
SUMALEE: Yes.
ASHLY: You're very excited about this, Nila.
SUMALEE: I want to get in there as fast as we
can.
MARISHA: I mean, look. The solution might end up
solving itself, who know who in this town is even
willing to go up against the Iron Shepherds.
ASHLY: Wait, would I know--
SAM: Wait.
LIAM, ASHLY, MARISHA and MATT: Wait.
ASHLY: The place where they keep the prisoners is
underground?
MATT: Correct.
ASHLY: Could we just burn down the building? Burn
down the motherfucking house?
MATT: It's mostly stone.
ASHLY: Burn down the-- is there wood in there?
MATT: There's elements of wood from a decoration
standpoint, but for the most part, it's a stone structure.
SAM: We could bring in a lot of kindling.
MARISHA: Smoke them out! That's actually not a bad
idea, now that I think about it, though.
LIAM: When you were in this house, as a mouse,
there was no way down there. It was a solid trap
door. You don't know what was under it?
SUMALEE: I could hear them, but that's the only
thing that I could see.
LIAM: What did you hear, specifically?
SUMALEE: I heard voices, I remember that. I was
trying to listen for my partner and my son. I know
they were the voices of the captured people, the
prisoners. I believe I heard voices as well of
some of the murderers.
LIAM: Well, we need to peel this like an onion. We
need to, I believe, get some help. Get some
reassurance. Outer layer of the onion is making
sure we take whoever is on the walls, whoever is
keeping watch, out, silently, so that we can begin
anew with the building itself. I think that either
you or my friend here should go in ahead of us so
we have some idea of what is happening. Once in a
while I turn this one into a spider. It is slow,
but it is very undetectable.
MARISHA: (laughing)
LIAM: Do you feel differently?
MARISHA: Sorry, I'm just imagining an infiltration
with the spider, like that's feasible.
SAM: Tip of the spear!
MARISHA: Go, Frumpkin, go!
ASHLY: Get him! Now bite him!
MATT: Lorenzo, felled by a brown recluse!
MARISHA: Put him in his boot!
LIAM: Truthfully, there are ways that I can hurt
people with a spider, but I'm just talking about
having a look around so that we are not walking
into something different than what you saw last night.
MARISHA: Sure. Literally anything is better than a
spider, though. For that. I just want to point that out.
LIAM: Well, I disagree with you.
MARISHA: I mean they've got a lot of eyes, I get
that, but I think in terms of a movement
situation, spiders aren't the best.
LIAM: Agree to disagree.
ASHLY: Do you guys need a second, should we take a
smoke break?
LIAM: You are new. This is very typical. It's just
part of the group dynamic. We are all friends.
SAM: It's like, have you ever seen a debate team?
They pick one side, and the other, and then they
just go at it for a while.
ASHLY: There's no really debating in Shadycreek
Run. Mostly insult, kill, insult, kill.
SAM: They should really start a debate club.
ASHLY: We should really start the first one!
LIAM: I am a master debater.
ASHLY: Shadycreek Debaters? Side mission.
MARISHA: Shady Debaters!
ASHLY: Shady Debaters? That's all I care about
now.
MATT: Well that's our next merch piece there.
MARISHA: Laura, make a Shady Debaters debate team
shirt!
MATT: Nope!
LIAM: But we want to take numbers down, so we peel
the outer layer separately. If all goes well, then
there is whoever is upstairs. The big X factor is
what is what is beneath. We don't know how many
people are underneath.
SAM: You said the sleeping quarters are upstairs.
If we went in the dead of night, and I know you
have a spell that can lock a door, or shut a door
or something?
LIAM: If I can find materials in Shadycreek. I
need gold dust, a lot of gold dust. How likely is
that here?
ASHLY: Would I know where to find that? Would that
be the general store, would that have that?
MATT: They may have it there, yeah. You haven't
had to acquire gold dust before, but if you were
to ask around, you could see if there's some place
in the vicinity that might carry it.
LIAM: To first get gold dust, I would need gold.
ASHLY: Which we would also need to hire people.
SAM: We have some.
LIAM: How much do we have? I have next to
nothing.
ASHLY: I have 130.
SUMALEE: I have ten gold pieces.
SAM: Did you say ten?
SUMALEE: Ten.
SAM: Oh wow.
SUMALEE: I am happy to contribute that.
ASHLY: Is it 130 gold? Or is it silver that I
have?
MATT: 130 gold.
LIAM: What about in the haversack? Does Jester
have any funds in there?
SAM: Oh. That's a good question. I'll reach in and
see what she has.
MARISHA: I've got a little bit of funds.
LIAM: Text thread explodes in five, four, three.
SAM: I need my thing? Where's the currency in
here?
MARISHA: If you go under equipment--
ASHLY: You don't remember your handy acronym?
SAM: I need it written down! Oh there it is.
LIAM: Remember, "LIAM EATS FARTS."
SAM: "LIAM EATS FARTS!" That's right, it's right
here. I have a few hundred gold.
MARISHA: Same.
ASHLY: Maybe we need people on the outside to take
care of folks on watch. The onion you're talking
about, maybe the outer layers are the hired hands,
and then we're the ones who go in.
LIAM: Yeah, it could be a group effort. I feel
very confident for many of our skills for the ones
on the outside. What I'm concerned about is
entering the front door. What is behind? What I
would like to do is go when they are sleeping and
hopefully murder them in their sleep, is the best case.
SUMALEE: Why don't we call them out, then? Why
don't we make them come outside? We have more
abilities outside.
SAM: But then they'll have weapons.
LIAM: Yeah, the thing when someone is sleeping in
a bed is they are like little-- (whispering) I was
going to say babies. I shouldn't say that!
SAM: Don't say that to her, especially.
SUMALEE: I cannot use my lightning inside. That is
all I'm saying.
ASHLY: What if we lure one of them out for you to
fry like a chicken?
SUMALEE: I would be okay with that.
LIAM: There's a little bit that we have to play
this by ear. I think we should go at night to
handle things when it is the least busy.
ASHLY: Is there anything we're missing?
SAM: We have no way of healing ourselves if we
die, unless you have healing potions on you.
LIAM: Well, maybe we can find some in Shadycreek.
ASHLY: I have two potions of greater healing.
SAM: How many do we all have? She has two.
MARISHA: I have one.
LIAM: One.
SUMALEE: Of what?
MARISHA: Healing potions.
SUMALEE: I have Healing Words.
SAM, ASHLY, and MARISHA: Ooh!
SUMALEE: Does that help?
MARISHA: That does help!
SUMALEE: Excellent! And I have those Goodberries!
MARISHA: Those are good! Those are great!
SUMALEE: And I can help give us extra power. In my
clan, we have a bear spirit known as Oaktar. If I
invoke the spirit of Oaktar, it gives us each
extra power.
ASHLY: Your clan sounds awesome.
SAM: Do I have to go to church or anything?
SUMALEE: No, you just have to be-- I think it's
within 30 feet of where I put the spirit totem.
LIAM: That seems strangely specific.
MARISHA: I'm into it, yeah.
ASHLY: So to Nott's point, what do we need? We
need fighters, we need magic? What do we need?
MARISHA: I like the idea of getting some sort of
fighter, especially if Nila can maybe take out
that outer onion layer with the lightning. We
should have found a better analogy.
LIAM: Than an onion? Well, how about we're just
going to kill the people on the wall, how is that
for a metaphor?
MARISHA: I like that.
LIAM: I like the idea of someone with a little bit
of muscle and then another person who is adept at
healing injuries.
SAM: Well, we did hear about that weird-- someone
said that there's some priest or something, or cleric?
LIAM: In the woods.
MARISHA: Ophelia mentioned that, yeah.
SAM: Yeah, so we could go see if they could give
us--
MARISHA: Aid.
SAM: Or come along?
LIAM: Did Ophelia mention how far out into the
woods that person was?
MATT: Travel on foot is about roughly four to six
hours depending on how well you can make your way
through the terrain.
LIAM: It is the same day?
MATT: It's like two in the afternoon, yeah.
SAM: So we can make it tonight.
MARISHA: I oddly trust that more than hiring
someone from The Grudge Gang.
LIAM: Ja, that is a good point.
MARISHA: I feel like The Grudge Gang might have
ties to the Iron Shepherds or at least an inside man.
LIAM: Yeah, friendsies.
ASHLY: I mean we could try, but if all they are is
a healer--
SAM: That would be amazing, though. I mean healing
potions are nice, but we need someone who can-- we
get killed a lot or nearly, you know?
ASHLY: Yeah.
MARISHA: I've seen some pretty badass priests in
my day.
ASHLY: Do I have any sense of--
SAM: You have?
ASHLY: She mentioned some of the kooky ones out in
the woods, right?
MATT: Yeah, she mentioned a Blooming Grove.
ASHLY: Do I have any sense of what that is?
MATT: You've not necessarily heard of The Blooming
Grove. Roll a history check, actually.
ASHLY: This not going to go well. 12.
MATT: That's not too bad. You've vaguely heard of
The Blooming Grove, but it's not referred to that
very often. It's more referred to do as The Bone
Orchard.
ASHLY: Hmm, less fun.
MATT: Yeah, you haven't been there, but from what
you know, it's this strange, ancient gravesite
that's been on the outskirts of town, a few miles
out, since before the town was built.
ASHLY: Are these healers considered by people in
Shadycreek Run to be wackadoos? Or are they--
MATT: From what you know, from what you've heard,
everyone thinks they're strange, creepy hermits
and possibly witches. No one really goes there.
Some folk in here tend to put on the air of not
being superstitious, but the Savalierwood carries
a lot of superstition with it. Some folks, while
they may play it off, still seem to get a little
nervous about delving too deep into it.
ASHLY: Well, that is a good point. If this person
lives in the Savalierwoods, then they're not weak.
There's a lot of crazy shit in the woods, so they
must be able to hold their own, or at least remain discrete.
SAM: They don't belong to any pact, or group that
we would need to negotiate with?
ASHLY: No, they live outside the-- I mean, they're
not even really related to the clans.
MARISHA: Did we hear what god they worship?
MATT: You have no idea.
MARISHA: I feel like if it was one of the accepted
gods of The Empire, you wouldn't have to hide out
in the woods. I'm kind of into this idea.
ASHLY: We can try.
SAM: Is it worth asking a Tasker first? What would
we even ask? Just how much it would be to hire you
for some muscle?
ASHLY: Yeah. They're not affiliated directly. It's
better for them to not be affiliated with any
particular groups, so-- but you know. This is not
a great place.
LIAM: Well, we're weighing two things against each
other. One is expediency because there are many
people in Shadycreek who could possibly lend a
sword or ability. But I think that you are
correct. That there is no telling their
allegiance, and I'm not ruling them out, but this
person out in the woods: probably not in the
pocket of our enemies. We need to come to a
decision promptly.
ASHLY: Well, how hardy would you say the mental
state of your companions is?
MARISHA: The ones in captivity?
ASHLY: Yeah.
SAM: Oh, I thought you meant us, because we're
right here. We can hear you.
ASHLY: No. I know that.
MARISHA: Probably pretty unstable.
ASHLY: What, do you think that they would be
susceptible to torture?
MARISHA: Being controlled.
SAM: Fjord, probably not. Yasha's probably is
okay. Jester has already turned. She's flipped.
She's probably flipped.
ASHLY: Oh, then there's no rush.
LIAM: Or wrapped them around her finger, one way
or the other. No, they are actually pretty--
they've got their shit together.
MARISHA: They arguably have their shit together
way more than the three of us do.
ASHLY: Would they look after--
LIAM: A child?
ASHLY: Yeah.
LIAM: Yes.
ASHLY: Okay.
MARISHA: Yeah, especially Jester.
ASHLY: Then maybe it's all right to take a little
bit more time.
LIAM: We have to make a decision.
MARISHA: What time is it?
MATT: Pushing past two to three in the afternoon.
MARISHA: You said it's four hours there.
MATT: Four to six hours depending on how well you
travel.
ASHLY: We have our horses?
SAM: Are we walking or horsing?
MATT: That's walking. Your horse isn't going to go
any faster than you in the middle of this very
clustered forest. There's no path that leads to
it.
MARISHA: Brisk power walk there, that'll get us
there right around sunset. Talk to people. Power
walk back, should get us there back--
SAM: For the Tonight Show?
MARISHA: Yes, in time for Saturday Night Live.
(laughter)
ASHLY: Lorenzo loves that show. He'll be up
watching it.
MARISHA: Great.
ASHLY: We'll change the plan.
LIAM: (announcer voice) Ophelia Mardun.
(laughter)
MARISHA: We might be able to go and get back in
time, is what I'm saying, and still be able to
attack tonight.
LIAM: To the household, ja. If we find what we
find in the woods is helpful enough, and we feel
good with what we got. Then in the middle of the
night is a go.
MARISHA: If it is a total bust, then that sucks.
SAM: We can still find a Tasker.
ASHLY: Yeah, they don't have a bedtime.
MARISHA: That's true.
LIAM: We want to hit it at two or three in the
morning.
MARISHA: All right, let's go. Are you good with
that, Nila? You seem apprehensive.
SUMALEE: I could check my smell bag, but I trust
you right now.
SAM: No, check your smell bag.
SUMALEE: Oh thank you. It makes me feel so much
better.
SAM: See if it passes the smell test.
LIAM: Whatever makes you feel comfortable.
SUMALEE: This is for going to find the priest who
has special abilities for reviving the dead and
healing people.
SAM: (fart noise)
SUMALEE: Pretty good. Okay, this is for The
Taskers and The Grunge Gang.
ASHLY: She took your name for it.
SAM: Oh, it's a better name.
SUMALEE: Did I mistake it?
ASHLY and SAM: No, no.
ASHLY: That's perfect. Smell your bag.
SUMALEE: It smells salty. Salty versus a little
bit of a raw, but grounded spicy flavor. I like
that one. Let us go see the priest. Thank you,
smell bag.
LIAM: You cannot argue with that.
SAM: No. You cannot argue with someone who talks
to a smell bag.
ASHLY: That is accurate.
SUMALEE: It has given me so much comfort over many
years. I love it. Thank you.
SAM: Sure.
MARISHA: Well, shall we?
LIAM: Yeah.
ASHLY and MARISHA: Let's power walk.
MATT: All right.
SAM: Butt-cheeks clenched.
ASHLY: What's the one where you wiggle? Is that
power walking?
SAM: Speed walking.
MARISHA: You know like grandmas in malls, like
around Christmas time.
LIAM: Are we Prancercising?
MATT: Everyone has their Fitbits attuned?
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: First off, what's your marching order,
please?
LIAM: Oh, also are our horses dead?
SAM: No, we can take the horses. It wouldn't speed
us up, but at least we'd be on horses.
MATT: You can take them with you.
LIAM: But it wouldn't speed us up, because it's
the woods?
MATT: Because it's like a thick wood.
LIAM: Let's walk.
MATT: Okay. Who's up front? Who's in the back?
Who's guiding what?
ASHLY: Would I know better, potentially, where I'm
going? Should I be in front? Or have I never been to this?
MATT: It depends. Whoever wants to guide this will
be taking the survival checks to lead you through.
So who wants to be making--
SAM: Nila, you seem to know about the woods. No?
SUMALEE: I would be happy to. Oh yes, survival is
good for me.
LIAM: I will walk just behind Nila.
MAT: Okay, so Nila's helming that.
SUMALEE: You are relying on me. I'm very happy.
ASHLY: Aww.
LIAM: She's just the biggest. I'm going to stand
next to the biggest person.
MATT: That's a good call.
MARISHA: That's still reliance.
MATT: Who's behind or near Caleb?
ASHLY: I'll take up the back.
MATT: All right, so Keg's holding up the back.
Beau in the middle?
MARISHA: Nott, do you want the middle?
SAM: Yes, please.
MATT: There you go. I'll put Frumpkin there, next
to-- okay.
MARISHA: Fuh-wumpkin.
MATT: Taking this moment now, you begin to head
back away from Shadycreek, and helming this group
of ragtag adventures you've under your wing. You
tread into an area of the Savalierwood you've not
traveled before hoping that your instincts, your
smell bag, and the spirit of what nature has
managed to maintain itself through this corrupted
wood could guide you properly to your destination.
I need you to make a survival check, please.
ASHLY: She is superstitiously leading us around,
just smelling.
LIAM: Get it girl.
SUMALEE: Oh.
MARISHA: That was almost great.
LIAM: Is there anything to add to-- ooh.
SUMALEE: Ten.
MATT: Ten, okay. You still have your Luck feat if
you want to, unless you want to save it.
SUMALEE: Oh, yes.
MATT: You have two more points left.
SUMALEE: I think we should use it. Yes. I would
like to use one Luck point.
MATT: One more Luck point.
SUMALEE: 17 plus seven. 24.
MATT: 24, okay!
SUMALEE: We shall survive.
MATT: Not only do you swiftly manage to find the
portions of the wooded paths that are least
blockaded by thorny brambles and fallen
half-rotted trees, but you also manage to help the
party avoid a few small openings that look
uniquely and uncomfortably welcoming. In the midst
of a wood like this, you know from your experience
as well, that it is not always a good idea to step
where it seems most inviting, when you know the
wood around you to be less so.
MARISHA: (whispering) Yes, yes.
MATT: As you crest around the second of these open
groves, you notice how the ground itself seems to
shift slightly, and you watch as for a moment it
seems to almost pit as elements of the dirt suck
inward. You know the antlion funnels that appear
in the sand and begins to come in towards them.
The ground almost seems to sink in for a second
before righting itself. The grove stands flat once
more, but thankfully, due to the survival
instincts of your firbolg leader, you manage to
careen past two of these patches without issue.
Pushing on at a fairly intense speed, within three
and a half hours, not even the full four--
ASHLY: Hey!
MATT: You manage to make your way to an area where
the color notably changes ahead of you. The
somewhat still purple-gray color that suffuses
most of the natural landscape within the
Savalierwood, gives way to a patch of green in the
distance. This is the first sign that calls forth
that warm sensation you got when you had checked
this path within your smell bag. As the rest of
you begin to gather up behind Nila, the closer you
get you begin to watch as these winter trees, that
comprise most of this northern forest, give way to
green oaks and swamp-based plant life. The
temperature, as you get to a certain threshold,
begins to be not quite as biting cold, slightly
warmer with each step. Looking around immediately,
the first thing that catches your eye is this
large wall of tangled vine and thorns. The same
purplish-gray color. The green is still ahead of
you. Do you guys want to continue on? Anything you
want to do?
ASHLY: You said there's a wall of thorns?
MATT: It looks like a natural wall that curls up
about five or so feet.
ASHLY: In our way.
MATT: In your way, yes.
SAM: How far to the sides does it go? As far as
the eye can see?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: That's sort of cocked. I'll take it anyway.
11 plus nothing.
MATT: A little ways off it seems to dip a bit.
Maybe about 100 feet or so to the northern side of
it. You've been traveling northwest to reach this
part of the forest.
MARISHA: We can't see over the wall?
MATT: You can see over it a bit, as there's only
about five or so feet most places. As you get a
little bit closer, you can see areas where these
tangle of vines are pulled apart or have entirely
enclosed, and you see long-rusted, wrought iron
bars, a fence of some kind. A boundary that was
placed long ago, that has since been slowly taken
back by nature. You then begin to see that area of
the wall that you had noticed, Nott, that had
seemed to be bending, and the vines have actually
curled over and bent it downward. It seems that
whatever this little section of the forest is--
whatever protective magics that once contained
this outer vicinity have begun to give in to the
corruption of the Savalierwood.
SAM: Should we hop the fence?
LIAM: One moment. I send Frumpkin up to flit about
50 feet ahead to see if there is anything ahead,
or from a bird's eye view that we are unable to
detect.
MATT: Okay, make a perception check for Frumpkin
with advantage because it is still in the owl form.
LIAM: That is a 21.
MATT: Frumpkin darts up, jumping from tree edge to
tree edge, gliding through. There are numerous
layers of similar walls. Three different layers,
looks like. Whereas the outskirts or the perimeter
of this beautiful, protected, ancient gravesite
that once held this corruption at bay has slowly
collapsed inward, and a new boundary is placed.
Then that boundary has fallen. As the corruption
pulls in further, a new boundary is built. That
third boundary now seems to be in the process of
giving in, just like its previous constructs.
Within this third area, you can see not just a
lack of snow, or ice, or the winter chill, but a
nearly humid summer warmth, something more akin to
the southern tip of the Empire or even Menagerie
Coast. It is an unexpected and extreme shift in
temperature and weather. There is something
unnatural, or at least magical, that maintains
this little pocket of untouched paradise. There
you can see small pools, bits of bog where the
soft green and browns of compost fall into green,
thick, algae-covered bits of water. You can see
dozens and dozens of stone tablets, about a foot
to two feet high, with bits of script across them,
too far to see, that have partially fallen or
leaning. At which point Frumpkin looks around and
this entire area, from the outer very edge where
that first perimeter wall was found, to the inside
has all been graves, most taken back by the
Savalierwood as it slowly crushes whatever this
location is at its source. On the far end, towards
the core and the back-- the northern side of this
final, defending pocket of uncorrupted forest--
you can see a stone building, maybe 20 by 30 feet,
built as an old stone steeple. It stands
windowless, open, and the floor of it to each open
window overgrown with green vine and leaf.
LIAM: Frumpkin is how far from me at this point?
MATT: Frumpkin is about 100 to 150 feet from you.
LIAM: So I can only watch. I have muttered all
this, watching. We are talking concentric rings?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: I think this is the place.
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: Frumpkin begins to return, and a passing of
one of the clouds gives more sunlight that breaks
through what was previously a very dense, gray
sky. As the light passes between the small breaks
in the tree canopies, the green comes to light
with color, numerous types of color. A rainbow of
flowers, of pigments you've never really seen
before, begin to emerge as the light hits it.
Nearly every inch of these gravesites contain a
smattering scatter of rainbow colors across petal
and stamen.
LIAM: I am beginning to think this a little more
than we came looking for, but we have traveled a ways.
SAM: Is there any sign of life? I mean, other than
plant life?
MATT: You saw maybe a few frogs, small natural
creatures that exist within this space, but
nothing that would resemble a human yet. It seems
still.
SAM and ASHLY: Let's go in.
SAM: How do we get over these things? Could we
climb them or would we get cut to shreds?
MATT: You can certainly try.
ASHLY: How tall are the gates?
MATT: The areas where the fence has been pushed in
is between five to six feet in places, areas where
it seems to be pushed down lower to about four to
even three and a half.
ASHLY: Your friend's coat? I know it's maybe
not--
SAM: You mean the tapestry?
ASHLY: The tapestry. I know it might hurt it, but
if we drape it over--
MARISHA: We buried him with it.
ASHLY: Oh, that's right.
MARISHA: But that's a good idea.
ASHLY: You want to go back? I could try to hack at
it with my axe.
SUMALEE: Could an animal jump over it?
MATT: Yeah. You guys could attempt to climb and
leap over. Elements of it are thorned and jagged.
MARISHA: This is what I used to do to hop fences
back in the day. I look for a few broken-down
branches that might be my height.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: A handful.
LIAM: We are going on a witch hunt. We can't go
over it, we can't go under it.
MARISHA: Ten.
MATT: That's fair. It takes you a few minutes and
you find a couple of softer pieces of branch and
vine that have fallen to the corruption. It's
interesting; you touch them and they're supple
like vines, but they're gray and freezing to the
touch. It's a very weird, unnatural feeling, but
it seems supple.
MARISHA: Before I do anything with it, I take it
over to Nila. Nila, have you seen any type of
blight on a plant like this before? Do you know
what this is? It's cold, feel it.
SUMALEE: You're right. Do I know what this is?
MATT: Make a nature check.
SUMALEE: I love making nature checks. Yes! 17.
MATT: You've studied and seen, within the vicinity
of where you grew up and where your clan had
raised you and your children, numerous types of
disease and natural means of plant life succumbing
to illness or an outside force. What you can tell
is that this is not natural. This is not some
naturally formed blight. There is some much older
and much more powerful latent reasoning for this corruption.
SUMALEE: I do not feel safe using it.
ASHLY: I know this is well-worn dwarf goof
territory, but does someone want to throw me?
SAM: That seems very derogatory. Also you're super
heavy, though, aren't you?
ASHLY: That's true. You all want to throw me?
MARISHA: I take the branches and I try to lay them
down over the vines a little bit and give a little
less thorny of a ramp.
MATT: You lean them up against it and slowly they
bow over.
MARISHA: Look, they hook all on their own, that's
pretty good.
ASHLY: Good job, Beau.
MARISHA: Thank you, look at that!
SAM: We could try to throw you.
ASHLY: I guess it might make more sense to throw
you, but I don't want to--
SAM: No, you can throw me, sure.
LIAM: Caleb starts to climb over.
MATT: All right. Make a perception check.
LIAM: 16.
MATT: As you carefully place your hands across the
elements of vine and root, you manage to keep a
keen glance for any sort of bladed, thorned, or
hooked elements that protrude from the local
fauna. You manage to avoid any of them from
catching your coat, catching your flesh, and step,
leaping over to the opposite side without issue.
SAM: That's amazing! He's amazing.
LIAM: Nobody was aware I was panicked the whole
time. The thorns are almost like small razors.
SAM: I'm coming!
LIAM: Careful.
SAM: I'm just going to dash over.
MATT: You're just going to dash over? Make an
acrobatics check.
SAM: That was 12 plus... 19.
MATT: Caleb has shown areas, as he passed over,
where you can safely climb. The rest of you don't
need to make checks. Nott ignores this entirely
and goes leaping and flipping and attempting to
make her way over. The actual fence bends slightly
at the impact of foot, the iron beneath having
wilted due to long-form rust and whatever
perpetual weight has been placed upon it from this
land attempting to reclaim it from underneath.
Nott leaps, double flip in the air, lands on the
opposite side, skids a bit as your feet hit a
slight bit of the icy floor, but you manage to
catch yourself, no issue.
ASHLY: Keg holds up a ten.
MATT: Each of you make your way over this element
of the forest, continuing on past the next two
boundaries, eventually making your way into the
central area of the Blooming Grove. The term now
striking a bell as you look around and can see
these beautiful flowers as the sun rays hit and
pass. It's like the color flares up once the light
hits it and then seems to gray as it passes on.
You now stand, temperature much warmer, and
there's just that stone structure ahead.
LIAM: How far away is the structure?
MATT: From where you're standing on the interior
of it, about 40 or so feet.
MARISHA: On the tombstones that are around, do I
recognize any of the language, or can I tell how
old some of these gravesites are?
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: 21.
MATT: Looking through, there are a few languages
that come through, most of them are elven and they
are very old. Some of them appear to be 100, 200,
400-500 years old. Whatever individuals or
families or bloodlines have been interred in this
space have been placed here for a very long time,
until recently.
MARISHA: Until recently, okay.
MATT: You do see one that appears to be maybe
about ten years old. Very faint elements of wear
and tear.
MARISHA: What's the name?
MATT: The name on that one would be Elvish and it
would be Tyriel Casala.
MARISHA: Tyriel Castala?
MATT: Casala.
MARISHA: Casala.
MATT: She knows Elvish, but she doesn't really
speak it often, so the pronunciations get a little weird.
LIAM: Domo arigato.
ASHLY: So should I go knock on that door?
SAM: Is there a door?
MATT: There is a door, yes.
LIAM: Hold on.
SAM: How big a place is the door place?
MATT: The door itself is maybe four feet wide,
it's a single door. It's an old wood-- the bottom
half of it is green with growing moss and other
bits of vegetation that are set in to the
relatively damp wood that it's constructed from.
The top seems to be split and warped a little bit
over time due to the moisture in the air.
LIAM: Caleb tries to creep up to a gravestone and
hide behind it to get within 30 feet of the door.
MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.
SAM: On the roof or the top of the-- sorry.
LIAM: Nine.
SAM: On the roof or top of the structure, are
there any holes or anything?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: 13.
MATT: Best you can see, no. It's pretty well made.
The walls and the roof all appear to be made from stone.
SAM: But no windows or anything?
MATT: There are windows. You can only really see
the front and right side of it, the southeast side
of it from your perspective-- there is a single
window. It is an arched window that looks like it
may have been built at one point to hold glass or
stained glass, but it is no longer there. You can
see the soft, jungle-like flora at the base of it
has swooped up and grown over and into the
interior of the structure. Best you can tell from
this distance, there is no visible light
immediately inside, but there is a bit of natural
light that is coming in through the open space.
SAM: Can I go over to the window and take a peek
in, stealthily?
MATT: Sure, roll a stealth check.
SAM: 12. I'll take a big swig of booze and then go
over and try.
MATT: Okay. You begin to dart across the open
space, dodging through gravestones and as you're
passing one of them, there is a bit of a thorned
vine that catches the back of your cloak. It pulls
taut before you get yanked on your neck, slip
back, and Nott slams on the ground giving a little sound.
ASHLY: Keg holds up a ten.
SAM: Why do you have that with you?
ASHLY: I'm trying a bit. I'm trying a new thing.
MATT: There's a brief pause, all of you hold in
silence hearing a distant bird that goes quiet,
the wind passing through the trees. You hear the
wooden door begins to slowly open as a shaded
figure steps beyond the frame. Taliesin, if you
want to step in.
(cheering)
MATT: Finally! (laughing)
TALIESIN: This is my stuff.
LIAM: You're really just a random shopkeep in the
woods?
TALIESIN: It's dangerous to go alone--
LIAM and TALIESIN: --take this!
TALIESIN: Just going to get my stuff.
MATT: Would you like to describe what they see
emerge from this small stone temple?
TALIESIN: From this small stone temple emerges a
tall, not necessarily healthily thin firbolg, who
is pale and a grayish color, and has a big shock
of weirdly pink mohawk hair--
LIAM: You don't say.
SAM: No!
TALIESIN: I'm going way off the reservation here.
He's a little gaunt. He's got a little fuzz, he's
wearing this bizarre-- he's wearing this very
gentle silk shirt that's got one long, flowy
sleeve. He's got a cup of tea. He's just staring.
Huh. I think I've only got three more cups. Hold
on. I go back in.
SAM: (shouting) Do you know her? Do you know him?
SUMALEE: It's a firbolg! He is a firbolg!
SAM: (shouting) Do you know him? What's his name?
SUMALEE: I do not! But he's a firbolg! He is one
of my people! (gasps) He is a firbolg. This will
be good. My smell bag was right again!
TALIESIN: I'm going to come out, I'm going to have
a little kettle set up on a little tripod. I'm
putting it down, I'm putting a big rod with a big
purple chunk of amethyst on it underneath the
kettle. Tapping it a couple times to get the
kettle to start heating up. I'm going to wander
into the graveyard and find some flowers for tea.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Can we tag along? Do you need any help?
LIAM: Does he seem like he's going to kill us?
MATT: Make an insight check.
LIAM: Thank you. 19.
MATT: 19?
LIAM: Nein-teen.
MATT: There doesn't seem to be any threat at the
moment.
TALIESIN: Mr. Clay, and nah, I'm fine. One
second.
SAM: He's Mr. Clay.
TALIESIN: I come back with a pile of red-purple
flowers and I'm grinding up. This is from Casala.
Textile family generations ago, but they make very
good tea now. (sighs)
MARISHA: Wait, back up a second. Are you Mr.
Clay?
TALIESIN: Mm. Caduceus Clay. Sit.
MARISHA: Caduceus Clay.
TALIESIN: I'm going to put out the three cups and
wait for the pot to boil.
SAM: Hello.
MARISHA: Is that Caduceus with a K, or a C? Okay.
SAM: Hi. Oh, we have to wait?
TALIESIN: Pour out the three cups. You have to
share, I apologize.
ASHLY: I don't drink tea. Booze is fine.
LIAM: I come over and sit and take one of the
teas.
MARISHA: Caleb and I will share one and I hand the
other to Nila.
SUMALEE: I would love to try your tea.
TALIESIN: Please, let me know what you think.
SUMALEE: It is delicious.
TALIESIN: Only grows here.
SUMALEE: I would like to hug you.
TALIESIN: Oh, please. Come.
SUMALEE: Nila gives him a big hug!
TALIESIN: I haven't had one of these in a long
time. That's nice.
SUMALEE: I am from the Guiatao Tribe. Do you know
us?
TALIESIN: No. I'm sure they're wonderful, though.
That sounds just great. That sounds wonderful.
Friends! (sigh) You have come. (sigh) Please, let
me know what I can do for you. Usually when people
come here, it is because of some great tragedy.
How can I alleve your pain?
LIAM: Oh, well, Herr Clay, we come to you with a
great tragedy.
MARISHA: A few great tragedies.
LIAM: Do you want to, or should I?
MARISHA: Well, the first one is, I think, it's
time for Caleb to have another bath. It's been a
little bit.
LIAM: That's the first one?
MARISHA: Being without a shower has been a bit of
a tragedy.
LIAM: (whispering) Do we really have time for a
comedy bit like this?
MARISHA: No.
SAM: We recently lost one of our friends.
TALIESIN: I would assume.
MARISHA: I didn't want to open the gate like that.
That's why we're here.
TALIESIN: People who come here usually have.
SAM: We aren't here to bury him. He's already in
the ground. We've come to avenge him and we were
hoping to find some help in these parts.
TALIESIN: Avenge him? What happened?
ASHLY: Do you know the Iron Shepherds?
TALIESIN: Do I know the Iron Shepherds?
MATT: You actually have not. You would have no
idea.
TALIESIN: No, I'm sorry, I really don't get to
leave very often, especially these days.
LIAM: How long have you been alone out here?
TALIESIN: (contemplative sigh) Been 20 seasons
now, 18 seasons? Try not to count, it just gets in
the way of more important things.
LIAM: How many seasons has it been since someone
has knocked on your door like we have?
TALIESIN: It's been about two seasons, I suppose.
Little bit of business, but it's been very slow.
MARISHA: Do you only gauge time in seasons?
TALIESIN: It's the only time that seems to
matter.
MARISHA: That's fair.
SUMALEE: I agree.
SAM: Do you work here? Is this your place? Do you
own this land?
TALIESIN: I'm so excited!
SAM: Are you the funeral director?
TALIESIN: Most people who come here know what this
place is, this is going to be delightful. I've
never had to explain it to someone before.
SAM: It's a graveyard. It's a boneyard.
TALIESIN: Well, boneyard is a bit crass, but yeah,
this is a place where we take the dearly departed
who have done well and the people who have lived
good lives and we put them into earth that has
been touched by the Wildmother. In turn, she
grants them with beauty and splendor and sometimes tea.
SAM: Like a boneyard sort of a place?
TALIESIN: More like a garden. We have been tending
this garden for generations.
MARISHA: We're drinking dead people tea?
TALIESIN: Aren't we all?
LIAM: That is a very fair point.
MARISHA: Very true. But you're cultivating dead
people for good tea?
TALIESIN: Aren't we all?
MARISHA: Yeah, okay. Yeah. That's a good point.
LIAM: We are very random visitors from out of the
blue. We do come to you with tragedy. We do have a
friend in the ground. We do have friends who are
in dire need of assistance. You help people into
the ground, but offhand, do you help them out of
the ground?
TALIESIN: Well, I mean, sometimes we can help
people who are on the edge of death. We certainly
understand that most people would rather spend
their time alive than not, and that makes sense. I
certainly have no interest in shortening my life
any time soon.
SAM: But you can't bring someone back who's
already expired?
TALIESIN: I mean, that's very tricky. Once you're
dead, there's a natural order to things. There's a
movement that things have to go, but in certain
cases, I'm sure.
LIAM: We've all read stories of the extraordinary,
but you do not have this in your wheelhouse, you
are saying?
TALIESIN: Oh, I can sometimes help people. You
never know.
MARISHA: Okay, well, beyond helping our recently
passed friend, how do you feel about helping
people who are on the edge of life and death in
captivity?
LIAM: Three in the cage is worth one in the dirt.
SUMALEE: There are firbolgs in this group, too,
that need help.
SAM: They've been kidnapped, including a firbolg
child.
MARISHA: And they might not have long to live.
ASHLY: They're being held by the Iron Shepherds.
SAM: Who are bad guys. We're good guys. Well,
we're sort of bad guys, too.
MARISHA: We're working on it.
LIAM: We are not bad guys.
ASHLY: We're doing all right.
SAM: Are you a bad guy?
TALIESIN: You know, honestly, I don't think I've
had enough experience to have an opinion on that.
I'm a good gardener.
SAM: What do you grow, other than dead tea?
TALIESIN: I grow lilies, I grow bramble,
mushrooms, moss.
MARISHA: Dead bramble. Dead mushrooms. Dead moss.
LIAM: If you are saying that you are able to help
people back from the brink of extinction, on
occasion or under the right circumstances, I am
going to hazard a guess that you could heal a
wound in a snap, yeah?
TALIESIN: Not with an actual snap, but yeah, I can
do that. I don't have to snap, though. I can be
really quiet when I do it-- pretty quiet, I
actually have to say something, now that I think
about it.
ASHLY: I'm going to take a guess: you don't
leave here very much, do you?
TALIESIN: I've left a few times, I suppose. It's
been a while. I've been on my own for a while. It
makes you get a little rambly.
SAM: You're stationed here? Are you allowed to
leave?
TALIESIN: That's a bit of a story. My family have
run this temple for generations, and I'm sort of
the last one left holding the fort down.
SAM: No cousins or anything?
TALIESIN: No cousins. A couple sisters, a brother,
my parents, but everyone's either wandered off to
help try and fix what's been going wrong or has
been put into the earth.
SAM: What's been going wrong? What's that? What's
going wrong?
TALIESIN: Well, as I'm sure you've possibly
noticed, and I apologize if I'm breaking some
terrible news to anyone who didn't, the forest
beyond my little patch of earth is a little
unsavory. It's dark. It can be a bit dangerous.
Don't recommend going out alone. It has been
overtaking our temple for the last hundred years,
and recently has breached the walls again.
SAM: So your family is trying to fix that?
TALIESIN: The last one to leave was my sister. She
went east.
LIAM: Now it's just you.
TALIESIN: Now it's just me. It's not much to hold
down at this point.
ASHLY: Why do you stay?
TALIESIN: Honestly, because it's a little
dangerous for a lone person to leave. I figured
I'd sit here with a kettle and wait for someone to
come along, and maybe see if I can make my way out
of here and figure out what's been happening in
this place.
LIAM: Well, you're double lucky.
SAM: This is great. So you don't have to check in
every night, and be here to punch in and punch
out? You could leave whenever you want?
TALIESIN: I could leave whenever I want, sure.
MARISHA: Is there a watering system, or can you
put it on a timer if you're not going to be here?
SAM: A drip-line?
TALIESIN: That's a really good idea. I don't... I
mean, if you guys in a serious rush, if you could
help I'm sure we could figure out--
MARISHA: Maybe we're in a rush; maybe after.
LIAM: Herr Clay, we are dealing with a
time-sensitive situation. You are looking for a
segue out of this predicament you're in?
TALIESIN: Mmm.
ASHLY: I feel like it's only fair to warn you: if
you were to come with us, we'd be asking you to go
into a situation that's not very safe.
TALIESIN: Are you inviting me to come with you?
SUMALEE: Yes, very much.
ASHLY: Oh, yeah, sorry-- did we not--
SAM: We came here seeking help in a mission that
we're about to go on.
TALIESIN: That's excellent. You're lucky I came
along, then. This is going to work out really well.
MARISHA: Well, we came to you.
TALIESIN: Well, you're lucky that I stayed right
here so that you intercepted me, because if I had
wandered off ten, 15 feet this may have never
happened.
LIAM: Herr Clay, we should be very honest with
you. We are intending to do good by people who
deserve it. A young one. Good people. But we are
going to do very difficult business tonight or tomorrow.
TALIESIN: Well, I don't know if I think that
anyone deserves anything, but I don't like cages,
and I'm really--
MARISHA: You don't have a particular penchant or
sympathy towards people who eat babies, do you?
TALIESIN: That seems a little specific. I'm mostly
interested in trying to take care of the natural
order of the world and nature itself.
ASHLY: Does murder end up on that checklist?
TALIESIN: Have you ever been in nature? Yes.
Violence is extremely natural.
ASHLY: Tight.
SUMALEE: No, the people we are after have done
terrible things. They have upset the balance of
nature so much by what they have done. They do not
deserve to live. Please come with us. I have an
idea. If you can come with us, maybe some of the
firbolgs from my tribe can come help you here
afterwards-- can help keep the temple afterwards.
TALIESIN: Well, I don't know about deserve, but I
think there's always somewhere there's a plant
that needs some compost, and I'm happy to make
some more if it'll make people happy.
MARISHA: Was that you saying you're willing to
kill people and put them in the ground to make compost?!
SAM: I think so.
TALIESIN: You got a lot of aggression. You got a
lot of anger.
MARISHA: Oh man, you're seeing me at a relatively
calm moment, actually.
LIAM: Welcome to The Mighty Nein.
TALIESIN: There's only--
MARISHA: Don't overthink it.
TALIESIN: Okay!
SAM: Do you know Pumat Sol, by any chance?
ASHLY: Nott!
SAM: What?
TALIESIN: Is that a time of plant?
SAM: All right, then no. No, I just had to ask.
TALIESIN: I've actually already packed; I'll go
get my things.
SAM: What?! Wait, what would we owe you for this?
LIAM: Do you require anything?
TALIESIN: I do; I may ask for it later.
SAM: Money?
LIAM: You'll have it.
SUMALEE: Firbolgs do not need money.
SAM: Tea?
TALIESIN: I like this one. I'll go get my green
beetle armor.
SAM: What?
SUMALEE: (excited gasp) I have not come across a
firbolg with green beetle armor!
TALIESIN: Thank you. My sister made it; I'm very
proud of her.
MATT: It's a chitinous-looking metal breastplate
that has a somewhat pearlescent turquoise
green-blue tint to it that seems to shift in the
light.
TALIESIN: I get a big, knotted, wet-looking stick
that is covered in lichen. The armor is also
covered in lichen. It's a big growing, living wet
thing. It has a big purple amethyst rock at the
top of the staff. I get a little shield also made
out of beetle.
LIAM: Motherfucking druid.
MARISHA: (whispering) Fungal armor!
TALIESIN: (sighs) Give me a minute. Just going to
walk around once, take it in.
SAM: If the thing he needs from us is our blood or
something, shouldn't we know that in advance? We
should find out what he wants from us before we
just blindly agree to this. What if he wants Keg?
LIAM: (whispering) We'll figure that out.
SAM: Some sort of, like, concubine thing? I don't
know! What if he's creepy or freaky like that!
ASHLY: I'm kind of into that.
SAM: Really?
ASHLY: I'm not picky.
SAM: Wow.
MARISHA: Your blood-- you got some to spare. You
can get more of it. That's how your body works.
SAM: What?!
SUMALEE: He does not seem freaky to me at all. He
seems very nice. Like a normal firbolg.
SAM: (warily) Okay.
TALIESIN: All right. I'm ready to leave. This is
going to be a little much, but I think I can do
it. I'm ready.
MARISHA: Hey Clay? Did you bury Tyriel Colsala
here?
TALIESIN: Casala?
MARISHA: Yeah, him. That's what I said.
TALIESIN: What did you think you were drinking?
MARISHA: (accented) Casala?
TALIESIN: Yeah. That's very close. It's good. It's
always worth trying.
MARISHA: Were you around when you buried him?
TALIESIN: Casala family, I think we have eight in
their generation; I was only here for the last two.
MARISHA: All right.
LIAM: So! Let me tell you about the murderers we
are dealing with.
SAM: While we walk.
MARISHA: Power walking?
ASHLY: Yep.
MATT: All right. Making your trek back to the
forest. Are you helming this as well?
LIAM: First, there was the dinosaurs.
(laughter)
SUMALEE: May I helm it with Clay?
TALIESIN: Caduceus. Caduceus Clay. You can call me
Clay.
SUMALEE: Caduceus.
LIAM, MARISHA, and SAM: Deuces!
SUMALEE: Deuces Clay.
SAM: It is decided.
TALIESIN: I have been trying not to show you this
art for two weeks now.
MATT: Caduceus, are you wanting to help? Or Nila,
I think, is asking for your help in fording this
forest, as you have a little more experience.
TALIESIN: Sure!
MATT: So make your survival check with advantage.
TALIESIN: Okay.
SAM: Where are we going? Back to town, or straight
to the--
ASHLY: Oh yeah. Do we want to go and try to get
some Taskers on our side? We have a healer now,
but we still don't have--
SUMALEE: 21.
MATT: 14 and a 14.
SUMALEE: I got 14 and 14.
MATT: It's up to you guys.
SUMALEE: I don't think we need them.
ASHLY: You don't think we need any more help?
MARISHA: We might be all right.
SAM: We don't even know what he does!
ASHLY: I'm with Nott!
SAM: He's a firbolg, yeah, but... Hey, Mr. Clay?
I'm going to shoot Beau with my crossbow.
TALIESIN: That doesn't seem like a very good
idea.
SAM: Oh, I missed.
(laughter)
MATT: (arrow whizzing away)
SAM: 12.
MARISHA: Yeah, no.
SAM: Sorry, I was just going to test if he could
really heal you.
MARISHA: The fuck?!
SAM: I'll shoot again with my bonus action! That's
a natural 20.
(laughter)
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.
TALIESIN: You make me figure out how to do this.
SUMALEE: Don't worry, I can cure them, too.
SAM: Not a sneak attack, because she was looking.
Oh boy. That's ten, but it's a crit. Does that do anything?
MATT: Well, you double the dice that you rolled.
SAM: Okay, so that's 12 plus four is 16.
MATT: You take 16 points of piercing damage,
Beau.
MARISHA: I'm going to try to catch it.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
MARISHA: Okay, I roll a d10.
MATT: Roll a d10.
MARISHA: A ten! Plus my monk level, right? Which
is five.
MATT: I think so. Is that what it says right
there?
LIAM: So only one hit point?
SAM: Just the tip.
MARISHA: 1d10 plus eight. Oh, it's my monk level
plus my proficiency bonus, so no damage.
MATT: It goes for right underneath where the
clavicle and the neck meet and catches it right there.
SAM: Oh, but with this crossbow, when I roll a
natural 20, it shoots another one immediately.
MATT: That's right!
SAM: Do I have to roll for that one?
MATT: You have to roll to attack.
SAM: That's a 23 to hit.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that one.
SAM: Eight.
MATT: What happens is you pull back to fire, and
as it gets ready to go ahead and extend it looks
like another bolt slips up into it accidentally
and it fires two in a row. Beau catches one and is
like "Ugh, ow!" and there's a second one that's
jammed right into the space between two ribs.
ASHLY: What the hell, Nott!
SAM: First of all, that was cool. And this was
cool!
MARISHA: And third of all, that was a killing
blow!
SAM: Now, do your thing!
MARISHA: You could fucking kill me!
TALIESIN: Is she always like this? This seems kind
of extreme.
SUMALEE: This is the most extreme I've ever seen
her.
SAM: Do your thing!
MARISHA: I'm keeping this bolt, this is mine now.
SAM: Okay.
MARISHA: I rip the other one out. Yeah! I put
that, and I'm keeping this one, too!
ASHLY: Keg is aroused.
TALIESIN: Come here. All right, and I get in there
and I'm going to do Cure Wounds and there's going
to be a little bit of lichen that grows on the
wound really quickly.
MARISHA: Don't infect me!
TALIESIN: It's fine. Do I roll for that?
MATT: Yeah, it's a d8 plus your wisdom modifier.
The wound seems to close as you watch this--
TALIESIN: Six points of damage-- six points of
healing.
MATT: You go up by six. You watch as this bright
red-pink colored lichen, mossy material, seems to
come out of the wound and close it and then turn
gray, break away, and crumble off. Where it is,
the wound seems to have closed and healed over,
like weeks of healing have gone by.
MARISHA: Okay, this shit's dope.
SAM: You're welcome.
ASHLY: Probably a different way we could have
demonstrated that, Nott.
TALIESIN: It felt very--
MARISHA: That wasn't for you. Never mind.
SUMALEE: They can be strange, but they are good.
TALIESIN: Honestly, it's been so long since I've
been around anybody, I genuinely wouldn't have
been able to tell.
MATT: In making your journey back toward
Shadycreek Run, the sun does set part way through
your journey. The forest goes dark, nearly pitch
black. Now, I believe all of you but Caleb have
some sort of darkvision. At this point, the
crickets start coming out very loudly, the distant
sound of skittering and animal movements through
brush and dry leaves catch the outside of your
peripheral. You manage to stop every now and then,
as Nila puts her hand up, listening and smelling
for anything nearby. Are you guys continuing at a
fast pace, or are you attempting to be stealthy?
ASHLY: Well, did we decide what we're doing?
MARISHA: I think we were going to go straight
there.
ASHLY: We're going straight to the Shepherds?
MARISHA: It's on the way.
LIAM: We didn't really discuss; we got
distracted.
MATT: That's true. Are you guys heading back to
Shadycreek, or are you heading straight to the
Sour Nest?
SAM: Is it on the way?
MARISHA: It's on the way. I say we at least stop
by and scout it.
SAM: If it's more or less on the way then yeah, we
can at least swing by.
MATT: It'll add an hour or so to go into
Shadycreek. Essentially this is Shadycreek Run at
the bottom of the forest and you've traveled, from
your perspective, far northwest to get to the area
where you met Caduceus. You're now heading back
down and the Sour Nest is on the northeastern side
of the city, just outside of it, so you have to
scoot and ricochet off.
SAM: So we'd have to go through the town just to
get there?
MATT: No, you could go straight to it through the
forest, but it depends on what you want to do. If
you're going straight there or if you're wanting
to skim through Shadycreek, it's your choice.
MARISHA: How long after dusk has it been?
MATT: The sun set. With that roll you made, you'll
be arriving at Shadycreek Run at about 10:00pm.
LIAM: We are going to find somebody, spur of the
moment, tell them to come with us out to the
woods? To do a bit of dark business?
MARISHA: Are you being facetious? I can't tell.
LIAM: No, I don't know if that's a good idea, I
don't like our options at the moment, any of them
really. I feel like we don't have-- we are one
more person than when we got our asses handed to
us on the road, and we thought we had the upper
hand then. Now we have one more, that is better,
but if we go to the town and we find a couple of
ne'er-do-wells who'll work for coin, we are
convincing them to come with us right away, into
the woods. Into the woods.
SAM: Into the woods and out of the woods?
TALIESIN: That would be the hope, I imagine, you'd
leave the woods once you went into the woods. I
mean, you don't just want to sit there. I mean,
that's what I do, but I'm not sure that was really
a great decision, so, yeah, huh.
SAM: Are you talking to us?
TALIESIN: I'm just thinking out loud. I've had a
few years to just think out loud.
SAM: How old are you?
MARISHA: How many seasons old are you?
TALIESIN: Been about 100, give or take.
SAM: But there's four seasons? Or is it three
seasons up here? I don't know.
MARISHA: 25.
SAM: He's between 25 and 100.
TALIESIN: That'll do.
LIAM: What do you think?
MARISHA: I'm still afraid if we roll into
Shadycreek-- once again, just pointing out what we
are: two firbolgs, a goblin, and then some kind of
acceptable-looking people and someone with a
reputation. Well, by society's standards.
ASHLY: A lot of shade just got thrown.
MARISHA: Look, come on!
LIAM: If we do that, the three of us would do the
talking, naturally.
MARISHA: I'm just saying, we will draw attention
to ourselves, and then we might go around asking
people to kill the Iron Shepherds, and that might
draw more attention to ourselves in a town that it
feels the Iron Shepherds kind of run. Or at least
have a better foothold in it than we do.
ASHLY: How would this be different? That's my
question. One more person, sure. A healer? Sure. But--
LIAM: Well, we could take them at night, which we
did not do before. Some of them would be awake,
probably not all of them. We had the element of
surprise before, we hopefully have it now.
ASHLY: They're on home turf.
LIAM: Home turf is big.
SAM: Can I just say, again, I don't give a shit
about Ophelia's request or The Gentleman's offer.
I just want to get all of our friends and get out.
If we can kill them, great, but if our aim is not
to kill them it makes this a much easier mission.
MARISHA: Do you know Ophelia, Clay?
TALIESIN: No.
MARISHA: Sorry, you just had a face like you
recognized.
TALIESIN: I had to think a little bit about it,
but no.
LIAM: You know, Nott, I agree with you. The most
important thing is getting the people who are in
that basement. The most important thing. You've
always got to improvise.
SAM: Yes.
ASHLY: So you're saying go in with the plan of
killing them and then switch it up if need be?
LIAM: The only thing that I believe is known is
taking care of the people on that wall, anyone
outside. I will send Frumpkin around to see if
there are more than just these two, then we will
have decisions to make. We will need to send in
Frumpkin again or our new friend here. One of us,
one of them and make a plan from there. That is
all we know now. We need to do something and I
feel a little on edge with our numbers, but I am
maybe more on edge by the ticking clock.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: Let's swing by the baddies' house and just
see what's going on?
MARISHA: Anyone in particular feel super strongly
about going and getting more help? Should we put
it to a vote?
SUMALEE: Do you carry a smell bag?
TALIESIN: A what?
ASHLY: So much disappointment.
SAM: She sniffs a purse every time she wants to
make a decision.
ASHLY: It's worked out so far.
SUMALEE: It's filled with things from nature that
I find significant.
TALIESIN: That seems like a really good idea
actually. I should start doing that.
SUMALEE: It helps me so much.
TALIESIN: What a good way to make a decision.
MARISHA: What does your smell bag say? Do we go
and we get more people or do we go to the house?
SUMALEE: I do not need to check it. No smell check
necessary.
MARISHA: Make a smell check.
SUMALEE: I just want to go. It will be okay. We
have two firbolgs.
MARISHA: I mean, she's so convincing.
ASHLY: Nila, I love your enthusiasm, but again,
they're on home turf, they have more people than I
thought, more abilities than I thought. I mean, we
hire a couple of Taskers. I know it's not ideal, but if--
MARISHA: All right, new plan. We split the party!
SAM: No! Terrible idea.
MARISHA: Half go to the house, the other half go
look for more help and then we meet you.
SAM: How's the half at the house going to do?
MARISHA: Watch.
SAM: No.
MARISHA: All right.
SAM: Let's swing by the house and check it out. If
there's a raging party, we'll just continue on to
town. If it seems dead, maybe we'll do a little
recon. If the recon goes well, maybe we'll do a
little insertion.
ASHLY: Are you describing a date right now?
SAM: The insertion goes well, maybe we go steady.
TALIESIN: I don't know what any of that means.
SUMALEE: You will get used to it. I just laugh
along now.
TALIESIN: All right.
ASHLY: Look, they're your people, so I'll leave it
to you guys, but I don't love the odds.
SUMALEE: I know because of your abilities, if we
can draw more of them outside, we will stand a
better chance. We will have more power than you
had last time.
MARISHA: Let's go to the house.
SAM: We're just going to watch.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: We're going to see what it's like at night so
if we have to come back tomorrow night, we'll know
what to expect. Are there more guards at night? We
don't know, they could have six more dudes who
come up there at night.
MARISHA: Let's go. We're wasting time just
talking.
SAM: We'll just look.
MARISHA: We'll go look.
MATT: Okay, so you head straight to The Sour Nest?
All right. Over the next couple of hours, you make
your way, scooting as opposed to the more southern
direction you were traveling, heading eastward.
Carefully making your way on the outskirts of the
northern side of North Clover of Shadycreek Run, I
need you all to make stealth checks.
MARISHA: Shit.
MATT: Disadvantage for you, Keg, unfortunately.
ASHLY: Fuck.
TALIESIN: Tonight, can I just politely ask the
forest to just give us a round this time, just in
case? I want to talk to a couple of trees, see if
they'd be all right just giving us a little passage.
MATT: Okay. Roll a wisdom check.
TALIESIN: All right. Wisdom save or wisdom check?
MATT: Wisdom check.
TALIESIN: All right. 21.
MATT: You bend in quietly, placing your hand
against one of the nearby trees, the bark being
cold and somewhat soft from the moisture of the
snow that had melted from the day before. You feel
the oppressive sense of the central nature that
encompasses the Savalierwood give way ever so faintly.
ASHLY: Wait. Maybe a stupid idea. You guys can
talk to plants. Plants are neutral. What if we
lead them into the woods?
SAM: What?
SUMALEE: Now you're thinking like I was. I didn't
have that specific idea--
ASHLY: The Iron Shepherds. We could lure them into
the woods.
SAM: And then what?
ASHLY: We fight them in there.
SUMALEE: We can have the plants entangle them.
ASHLY: I don't know, it could be a backup if this
plan goes south, if they wake up or something. But
if they can talk to the plants-- the woods are
anyone's game. They'd be fighting other creatures,
not just us.
LIAM: But what is it that lures the Shepherds out
of their hole?
SAM: They won't leave.
MARISHA: I've got fireworks.
SUMALEE: I can put a stink bomb inside. Really
stinky, not like what you call my stink pouch.
LIAM: That will put them in the courtyard, it will
not probably put them in the woods.
SAM: We'd need to take one of theirs, take Lorenzo
or something. They'd have to come after us. There
would be no reason for them to leave.
ASHLY: Do I know if Lorenzo is a loyal person,
like would he give or would he just let someone
die if they got taken?
MATT: Best that you can tell, he's not a "leave no
man behind" type individual.
ASHLY: Okay.
MARISHA: He isn't?
MATT: He is not.
ASHLY: But he is a vengeful type of individual?
MATT: He's definitely a fan of an eye for an eye.
ASHLY: If it goes south, and we manage to kill one
of them, he might chase us.
LIAM: True.
SAM: Or maybe not.
ASHLY: Or maybe not. It could be a backup.
SAM: No, it's good.
LIAM and MARISHA: Let's go.
ASHLY: Oh, stealth checks, right.
MATT: Stealth checks.
TALIESIN: First stealth check. Where's my stealth?
Seven.
SAM: 26.
ASHLY: Seven.
LIAM: Ten.
MARISHA: 12.
SUMALEE: 20.
MATT: Okay.
ASHLY: These are such bad stealth checks.
MATT: Thanks to you speaking with nature, I am
ignoring one of the lowest stealth rolls.
ASHLY: Only one?
MATT: Even still, you approach the outskirts of
The Sour Nest. The clouds of the night are broken
here and there, the very darkened night
occasionally broken by the errant moonbeam that
manages to sweep through the open grove where this
fortress was built. The canopy itself cleared out,
leaving it open for the occasional peek of white
through the clouds. The same perimeter wall you
see being slowly trained across by two guards
dressed in the same hooded attire as those that
you previously saw. As you saw as well bringing
the three carts northward from the Glory Run Road.
As you begin to approach, Keg, unfortunately,
manages to step on a hornet's nest. It crunches
under your foot, and, for a brief second, you
inhale very sharply knowing this familiar sound--
This is not the first hornet's nest you've stepped
into. Thankfully, a moment passes, no hornets. It
was abandoned and had fallen from a tree. However,
you do hear a voice on the wall say, "Hello?"
ASHLY: Shit.
SAM: How far?
MATT: About 70 feet from you.
LIAM: I think we might be doing this now, so be
prepared for it.
ASHLY: I don't want to put Frumpkin in danger, but
could we pretend it was Frumpkin, if he shoots out
or something?
LIAM: Frumpkin shoots up into the air and bounces
off a tree.
MATT: (hoots) "Oh, there you are again, you
sucker." He's going to raise a crossbow again.
ASHLY: Oh no! Oh my god, if I kill someone again!
(laughter)
MATT: That is a 13 to hit. What is Frumpkin's
armor class as an owl?
LIAM: I have an owl here, it is-- That hits.
ASHLY: Oh!
SAM: Burch-icide!
ASHLY: Shit!
MATT: That is four points of piercing damage to
Frumpkin.
LIAM: Frumpkin is alive!
SAM: What?!
MATT: How many hit points does the owl have?
LIAM: Well, it's 1d4 plus one, and I rolled it
last time, and I rolled a four, so it's 1d4 plus one.
MATT: So it's five? This owl takes a crossbow bolt
to the chest, and is like (flapping). You hear the
same voice go, "Fucking hell! What-- Phil! I
fucking shot an owl, it's still flying! I hate
"this forest! It's bullshit!" You hear this voice a
little further away go, "(laughing) You suck!"
He's like, "Shut up!" Loads another bolt into it
and starts-- You see now is actively looking for
the owl to finish it off and regain his pride.
LIAM: I told him to go down low to the ground.
Yeah.
MARISHA: Can you bring him back? I kind of want
that arrow.
LIAM: Ja, I can, but I poof into Frumpkin's
senses. Do I hear anything besides Phil and
Mystery Man?
MATT: Make a perception check with advantage.
LIAM: Ja, because of the hearing.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Oh, that's good on the first roll. The first
roll is good, so it is 18.
MATT: 18? Okay. Hearing the two men banter back
and forth a little bit, the errant prodding that
Phil seems to be giving to this individual. Beyond
that, there's the crickets in the air, there's
other nocturnal birds that are starting to rouse
from their slumber to go hunting for the night.
From the direction of The Sour Nest, Frumpkin
glances up and can see, on the second floor, there
are two openings you had seen previously on the
second floor of this fortress, on each side, and
there appears to be a very faint bit of firelight,
and a shadow that passes by one, the other, so
there is somebody moving on the second floor of
this--
LIAM: Who's in the building?
MATT: Of the inside of it, yes.
LIAM: Okay. I snap my fingers, and Frumpkin
vanishes, leaving the bolt where he was, and then
I do it again. He's here.
MATT: All right. Very wounded, but alive.
LIAM: May I borrow one of your goodberries?
SUMALEE: Absolutely.
LIAM: Is this one? Okay.
SUMALEE: You may take-- I believe there are four
or five left.
LIAM: I will take four.
SUMALEE: Please.
LIAM: One, two, three, four. You may keep that
one. Thank you.
MATT: Frumpkin happily eats from the goodberries.
ASHLY: And he's better?
MATT: Yeah, the wounds close slowly, the magic of
the goodberries healing the crossbow bolt over eventually.
ASHLY: Oh, god. Sorry, guys.
SAM: We can maybe use this. We could make a
distraction owl that he will focus on, and we
could take him out from afar.
MARISHA: Do you have an illusion that you can do
that? It's a good idea. Maybe we should've done
that to begin with.
LIAM: We could potentially keep moving now, if we
want to, because--
ASHLY: We got the lay of the land?
LIAM: Yeah, we know there's two on the wall, maybe
that's their M.O., every night there's two on the
walls. People are awake inside. What is the hour
right now?
MATT: I'd say at this point it's close to 10:30.
LIAM: 10:33, yeah.
TALIESIN: That's very specific.
LIAM: Yeah, it is.
TALIESIN: Are you just going for that, or is that
going to mean something?
LIAM: Oh, I'm sorry, 10:34 now.
TALIESIN: In a minute, it's going to be 10:35.
LIAM: Yeah, approximately.
TALIESIN: How about now?
LIAM: It's still 10:34.
TALIESIN: But it's closer to 10:35?
LIAM: I'm not going to do this right now. We have
a decision to make. Doesn't seem any better or
worse from the outside, but we are outside the
onion. Are we going back to town to get a little
more muscle, or are we making a go of it here?
MARISHA: All right. Who votes for more muscle?
Let's put it to a vote.
LIAM: Well, how successfully could we silently
kill these two on the wall? You would be good at one.
SAM: Silently, we can kill these two, I think,
very easily. As long as you don't move.
ASHLY: I won't. I'm staying right here.
LIAM: But pitch it to me. How? You, I know--
SAM: Can take this guy easily, if-- Do you fight
people from afar?
TALIESIN: Not quietly.
SAM: How about you, Nila? Do you have anything
that can shoot from afar?
SUMALEE: Lightning, I told you.
SAM: Well, something that's not like, "Hey, look,
we're here, we've got lightning!" Something--
SUMALEE: Poison Spray.
SAM: Okay. I mean, that's--
SUMALEE: Ten feet. No, that's not from very far.
SAM: We have Beau. She's quiet. I could distract
one while you go up and just (crack).
MARISHA: How tall is the wall? How would I be able
to get on the wall?
MATT: The wall is about 12 to 15 feet. It's not
terribly tall. It's about five feet wide.
MARISHA: Are we walking the perimeter? If we're
doing a perimeter walk, I want to look and see if
there are any branches and trees that might be
growing close to the wall, that I could--
MATT: You do know, from previously looking over
it, that they've cleared out the forest about ten
feet from the outer wall specifically to prevent
anyone from climbing over into the space.
SAM: I can shoot one with a crossbow.
SUMALEE: I have a sling, too.
SAM: Okay.
LIAM: Yeah, but we have to finish the job
instantly.
MARISHA: Yeah, we've got to do both at the same
time, ideally. There's got to be a team one and a
team two on the guy. I've got my throwing darts,
but they're not super great.
ASHLY: Your lightning, it doesn't make a storm
around it, right? It's just a lightning bolt. We couldn't--
SAM: Controlled lightning?
ASHLY: Make it seem like it's a storm, rather than
an attack.
SAM: Well, listen, you can distract him with the
actual Frumpkin while I shoot. It doesn't have to
be an illusory Frumpkin. I can still shoot.
LIAM: Could also shoot him from the dark when he's
not expecting it to happen.
SAM: That's true.
MARISHA: Also, sometimes maybe it's just a stormy
night here in the forest.
TALIESIN: This Phil must be a really bad person if
you're--
ASHLY: Yeah, he's a real dick.
SAM: Phil's the worst.
ASHLY: Are they within eyesight of each other? I'm
assuming so.
MATT: They are, yes.
SAM: I can, if you guys-- I can shoot. I got a
shoot-y thing. I can shoot them.
MARISHA: Okay, here's what I'm going to propose.
We split up: three on one guy, three on the other.
We'll do the plan that worked when we were doing
it on kids, and we didn't know we were doing it on
kids. Me and you can throw up a bottle rocket.
That will be the signal. We attack both of the
guys at the same time, two different sides.
SAM: That's loud. We could just do Message. We can
send each other a message that's silent.
MARISHA: But if it's loud, and they're both dead
afterwards.
LIAM: No, the people inside will hear it. No, we
need silence.
SUMALEE: I could create-- Oh, were you going to
say something?
TALIESIN: I know I'm new here, and you've
obviously all got some kind of hierarchy going
here of how you work this out.
SAM: Caleb's in charge.
TALIESIN: That makes sense. I suppose my question
would be: what are you really here for? Because
normally, if I'm looking at a complicated problem,
I just think about what it is that I really want,
and then I go and I do that.
MARISHA: We want to murder everyone inside and
rescue the people who are trapped.
SAM: We want to rescue the people who are
trapped.
TALIESIN: Well, I was going to say that if you had
to put one above the other. If you get one thing,
you get to do it.
SAM: Rescue the people in the basement.
TALIESIN: So you've got to get in and out of the
basement. That seems to be the conversation then,
is getting in and out of the basement. I'm sure,
inevitably, you're going to kill a whole bunch of
people in the process of that, but as long as
you're focused on where you're going and what
you're doing, that may help with this wanton
violence against Phil, who I'm sure is a terrible
person. He shot an owl.
SAM: Phil's friend did.
ASHLY: He thought it was funny, though, so he's
still a dick.
TALIESIN: No, that ain't funny.
MARISHA: All right, let's split up, take these
guys out.
LIAM: No, it's too early. We need to wait.
MARISHA: Jesus!
LIAM: It's 10:35 at night. We need to wait until
they're asleep.
ASHLY: Call it 10:37 at this point.
LIAM: No.
MARISHA: We wait an hour and get into position.
MATT: Okay. You guys wait an hour to get into
position.
MARISHA: We watch the passing shadows in front of
the windows.
MATT: Okay, you keep an out, and you do watch as
the two of them-- They're not perfectly in line
with each other, and the second floor of the
complex does block their vision of each other when
they are on complete opposite sides of the wall.
But sometimes one of them will be faster than the
other, and they'll yell to the other, and they'll
go see each other from the opposite sides.
LIAM: How far is Beauregard from me right now?
MATT: How far is Beauregard from you right now?
LIAM: Did you wander away from me?
MARISHA: No, I'm right next to you.
LIAM: (whispers) Would you rather wait until they
are sleeping in their beds before we did this?
MARISHA: Yeah. I was just trying to move things
along.
LIAM: I don't want this one moving along right
now. She makes a lot of noise.
ASHLY: Sorry.
MARISHA: Yeah, we'll wait. We'll just wait an
hour.
ASHLY: That's a good question. I'm probably going
to ruin any stealthiness.
MATT: You do know, from the time that you've spent
here, that there is no point in which the place is
unguarded from the wall.
ASHLY: There's no point at which there is--
MATT: Meaning there are shifts. The perimeter
sentinels that you see currently, there are
usually two sets that switch off.
ASHLY: Is there a time when they change?
MATT: There is, but you're not entirely certain
when it was. You weren't really paying attention.
SAM: You could take off your armor.
MARISHA: That's what I was thinking, at least to
get into place, and then put it back on.
MATT: It's a lot of armor.
LIAM: If we are doing this, I feel we should wait
until it is late at night, and wait until we see
those guards changed, and then wait a little bit
further for the old guards to go to sleep. Yeah?
So there's a lot of sitting here and not moving. I
know we are all very anxious, but we wait, someone
comes out, relieves these two, they go to bed, and
then we strike all at once. Then we do your plan;
it's just delayed, that's all.
MARISHA: Okay. Until the next shift change. I
could use a short rest anyway.
SAM: Get on different sides of the facility?
MARISHA: I think so.
LIAM: Yeah, but Keg, you stay here.
ASHLY: And do what?
LIAM: Wait.
SAM: With two other people. We're splitting up so
we can take them both out at the same time.
LIAM: Yeah, you are just waiting until some of us
are able to silently take out these people on the
wall. Then we buy ourselves a little time while
you can clink and clunk as we get closer.
ASHLY: (laughs)
LIAM: It's good that you find levity in the
situation. Then we go into the inside of this wall
and take the next step.
ASHLY: So it's not three and three, it's three and
two.
LIAM: Well, it's two groups, and you move less
right now.
ASHLY: Okay. Fair.
MARISHA: Can I take a short rest?
MATT: You guys can take a short rest.
MARISHA: And we watch.
MATT: And you watch.
MARISHA: And we solidify our plan?
MATT: Mercifully, depending on your intent, the
clouds break for a while and you have a clear,
starry, moonlit sky overhead that manages to
create a rim-light on both the wall, the
structure, and the two guards. And you wait. And
you wait. And we're going to take a break.
LIAM: Thank goodness. I have to pee so bad.
MATT: We'll come back here in a second. At this
point, might as well put the fortress out there,
so that'll be waiting for you when you come back.
LIAM: Let's go back to town.
SUMALEE: You're a firbolg!
MATT: You finally found him! We're going to go to
break here for a bit, but we have our giveaway at
the break! For our fantastic giveaway tonight, we
have the purpleheart hero vault with the Celtic
knot design on it, which is really pretty. It's
magnetized; open it up and you can put your dice;
you can put your miniature in there. I'll be
giving this away at the end of the break, so hop
on over to the Critical Role chat on Twitch.
That's twitch.tv/criticalrole and enter the key
word once. More than once and you'll be
disqualified. The keyword tonight is "stronghold."
One word: stronghold. All you people in the U.S.
and Canada, excluding Quebec, throw that into the
chat and we'll come back with a winner as soon as
we return. See you in a few minutes!
ASHLY: Banana hammock
MATT: A little late on the draw there, but that
worked out. That was awesome. Welcome back,
everybody! Before we jump into this, we have our
winner of the fantastic purpleheart hero
vault. That's going to be Elmosdaddy.
Congratulations, Elmosdaddy! We'll get your
information and get that out to you ASAP.
LIAM: (Elmo voice) Elmosdaddy!
ASHLY: Sounds just the same. Is it the same
voice?
LIAM: (Elmo voice) (giggling)
MATT: To give you a little bit of a visual
representation of the size of the base of the fortress.
LIAM: (Elmo voice) Everybody's going to die!
MATT: That's what you see within the interior of
the courtyard. The wall itself resides probably
about out here.
SAM: This is inside the wall?
MATT: This is inside the wall.
SAM: Oh jeez.
MATT: Above that, still--
SAM: There's a second floor?
MATT: There's a second floor.
SAM: But it would be ridiculous to have built that
also.
MARISHA: How are you lifting that?
LIAM: He's got a little board under there.
MATT: The second floor sits right about there. To
give a little bit of perspective on that. The
black dots on the outside, by the way, are where
the windows are visible on the stone. You guys are
currently divided on opposite ends of the outer
wall watching the two guards slowly move their way
around the perimeter.
MARISHA: Have they done a guard shift yet?
MATT: Not yet.
LIAM: In the interim while we're waiting for that
to happen, I'm going to do two things. One, I'm
going to cast Mage Armor on myself, and I'm also
going to pull a book out of one of the holsters
and spend ten minutes changing Frumpkin into a
spider!
MATT: All righty.
ASHLY: There aren't any windows on the bottom
floor at all?
MATT: No. No windows in the bottom floor. There is
a front double door, and there is a single door in
the back that you know leads into a kitchen.
MARISHA: Go Charlotte, go! You're radiant!
LIAM: He has three hit points, so I think he's
actually a bigger spider than the one you're
imagining. See, he's right there. He's very big.
MARISHA: How big is that spider?
MATT: It's a pretty big spider.
LIAM: It's three hit points worth of spider.
MARISHA: That looks like a three hit point
spider.
LIAM: Somebody could step on it and he could still
go.
MATT: That's a four or five hitter.
LIAM: Get Brian Foster in here with his ping pong
racket.
MARISHA: That's arguably terrifying, I'll give it
to you. I was a little wrong, just a little.
LIAM: I put it on Beau's shoulder.
MARISHA: I'm not terrified of it, I'm just saying
it could be terrifying. Hi, Frumpkin.
MATT: Shortly after midnight, you watch as two
figures ascend from the inside of the wall
climbing up different ladders that mark the
entrance and exit. They both interface in a brief
conversation, hushed voices, and then relieve the
two previous guards, who then descend down on the
inside of the courtyard via those same ladders and
disappear into The Sour Nest fortress. So there
has been a guard changeover now. It's past
midnight, pushing one in the morning. What would
you like to do?
SAM: How are we split up, group-wise? Probably me
and Caleb split. And then--
MARISHA: One firbolg each.
SAM: I'll take the new one.
MARISHA: We'll take the old one.
SAM: Oh hey, look!
MARISHA: Table and Table.
SAM: While we're waiting I've asked the Deuce--
TALIESIN: I'm already regretting the name.
SAM: Are you married?
TALIESIN: No.
SAM: Did you go to college?
TALIESIN: What?
SAM: How old are you really?
TALIESIN: I don't really know how to answer that
question.
SAM: Do you have kids?
TALIESIN: No.
ASHLY: Why are you badgering him with questions?
SAM: Well, he's a new friend and I talk when I'm
nervous.
ASHLY: Why don't you let him think and answer
questions one at a time?
SAM: You're right.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
ASHLY: Sure, well, I'm learning from-- I don't
know who, actually. None of us are good at this.
Nila, I guess.
SAM: Nila is really good at this; she's great.
SUMALEE: What am I good at?
MARISHA: I don't know I can only hear muffles.
Choice words. I think they're talking about you, though.
SUMALEE: It's okay.
LIAM: I pull the haversack off and say: I have a
decent idea, anyway. I think that you should use this.
MARISHA: Oh yeah.
MATT: Much like how you spend a moment with your smell
bag, you watch as Beauregard seems to focus into
this strange, vibrant pink satchel or shoulder bag
that Caleb has been carrying.
SUMALEE: What is inside?
MATT: About a minute passes before Beauregard
pulls back away, this strange trance passing over her.
MARISHA: Death is weird, am I right?
SUMALEE: What did you do to her?
LIAM: Back to my idea, okay. Nott on the other
side can probably put a bolt in that guy's throat
over there. You can probably vault up the side of
that wall, if I'm not mistaken, don't you think?
MARISHA: How tall are you?
SUMALEE: 7'2", maybe 7'6".
MARISHA: Would you be willing to give me a boost
up that wall?
SUMALEE: Absolutely.
LIAM: Oh, you told me about your ability to make
things quiet around you.
ASHLY: Damn, should've gone with Nila.
SAM: You married? What kids do you have?
ASHLY: I was married once. It lasted, like, an
hour.
TALIESIN: I bet it was a really good hour.
ASHLY: Yeah, she sobered up and she said that she
made a mistake.
LIAM: When I hold him, you yank him off of the
wall, and then Humpty Dumpty, you know, they can't
put him back-- You know how it goes.
MARISHA: Copy.
SUMALEE: Wait, I'm sorry, I need that one more
time, but I'll get it.
LIAM: You are going to help Beauregard here up
onto the wall, quietly, after you use your--
SUMALEE: Pass Without a Trace.
LIAM: Whatever you call it. Then she gets up there
and I am going to use my tricks to hold him and
let her rip him off the wall and split his skull
upon the stones beneath.
SUMALEE: Excellent.
MARISHA: Also, the thing I was looking at, our
version of the smell bag. It's like this artifact
that we got from an assassin that lets you look
into the creation of space and time and the universe.
LIAM: Pretty complicated.
MARISHA: Yeah
SUMALEE: Wow.
MARISHA: Anyway.
LIAM: I pull out a little wire and whisper into it
to Nott and say: I think we have an idea over
here, so we should probably get set.
ASHLY: We haven't come up with a plan yet.
SAM: We'll get ready over here, give us one
second.
ASHLY and SAM: How tall is our firbolg?
TALIESIN: (singing) How tall is my firbolg? Seven
feet?
MATT: Seven to seven and a half feet.
ASHLY: We could just copy their plan.
SAM: I mean, I can just shoot.
ASHLY: Oh, you can just shoot, never mind.
SAM: If I miss, then backup plan is boost-y to
you?
ASHLY: Can you? I'm like 200 plus.
TALIESIN: I'm not that strong.
LIAM: Well, she's a party maker, noise, you know.
(clanking)
SAM: You can't shoot anything?
TALIESIN: I can do some magic.
ASHLY: I have javelins.
SAM: Oh! You have a javelin.
ASHLY: I forgot I had javelins. Yes, I have
javelins.
SAM: I guess that's our Plan B, then.
ASHLY: Didn't do too hot in the last one.
SAM: Is there anything that either of you can do
to hold, silence, or assist me as I shoot this fellow?
ASHLY: I could give you thumbs up as you're doing
it.
SUMALEE: If I cast Pass Without a Trace, can it
help them, too?
MATT: Unfortunately, you guys are on the opposite
sides of this.
TALIESIN: I've got a Guiding Bolt, but it's very
bright and it's made of light.
SAM: Let's not do that.
TALIESIN: I have some insects, but they make a lot
of noise.
SAM: Okay. It's fine. It's on me. It's okay. I'll
just get super drunk.
TALIESIN: Actually, I have something I can do
while that's happening.
LIAM: Matthew?
MATT: Yes?
LIAM: DM. where would you say, in relation to this
map, the two groups are?
MATT: The two groups would be probably on the
outskirts of the wall here and here.
LIAM: So 150 feet apart, probably.
MATT: Quite a distance.
MARISHA: How far does your Message work?
LIAM: Like, about that far.
MARISHA: So we wouldn't be out a Message range of
each other.
SAM: Message is 120 feet.
MATT: About 120 feet.
LIAM: Ayy!
MARISHA: When I get up there and grab him, I'm
going to bash his head in and I'm going to throw
him down, and if he's still alive, you get him.
SUMALEE: With my shillelagh!
MARISHA and SUMALEE: (grunting)
MATT: We'll say you can manage to adjust
yourselves to get within range.
LIAM: When you get on the wall off of Nila's
shoulders and you do the handhold thing? You know
what I'm talking about?
MARISHA: I was figuring I would be on her
shoulders and we would suck up against the wall.
SAM: I take out a piece of wire and send a little
Message.
LIAM: Right underneath him?
MARISHA: We'll see, yeah. Right underneath him.
SAM: Caleb! Provided this plan works, after we
knock down the folks, someone on each party should
put on their cloak and resume their guard pattern
and keep walking around the wall.
SUMALEE: Very sneaky.
LIAM: That is an excellent idea.
SAM: You can respond-- oh, you did.
LIAM: Yeah. You and I, we're good. We have this
little routine. Beauregard can do that on this
side. What about on your side? You? You're short.
MARISHA: Keg.
LIAM and SAM: She's short.
MARISHA: But not as short as Nott.
TALIESIN: You could stand on top of me.
ASHLY: Are these guys humans, these guards?
MATT: Make a perception check. (yawns) Pardon me.
ASHLY: 20, baby!
MATT: One of them is human, though maybe 5 1/2
feet tall. The other, because of the moonlight
that's coming through, you have a better
perspective on him, even at this distance, you
guess probably half-elven or just a very thin
human. A little over 6-foot. So you have a 6-foot
one and one that's 5 1/2 feet.
SAM: Maybe firbolg could hunch over and stalk
around.
SUMALEE: As a firbolg, you have the ability, no,
to disguise yourself? Every firbolg does, to
shrink a little bit if you want.
SAM: She says to Caleb, who tells me, who tells
him.
SUMALEE: Sorry!
MARISHA: Pass it along!
TALIESIN: Yeah, I guess I can do that.
SAM: Okay!
ASHLY: I'm very strong, I could maybe hoist you.
SAM: Oh! Yes! See, you've got a plan, now!
ASHLY: We made up a plan, too!
LIAM: What are you doing over there, Nott?
SAM: We're going to shoot the man and then drunky,
smoky Keg is going to pick up The Deuce and he's
going to walk around--
ASHLY: Is my nickname Drunky, Smoky Keg?!
SAM: We're working on a better one.
ASHLY: It's not even a nickname; it's three times
longer than my normal name! How about Keg?! My
normal name!
TALIESIN: It's literally one syllable. I feel like
that's not a lot to ask.
LIAM: Nott, I have a question for you. The plan is
not foolproof, but on our side over here,
Beauregard's going to throw the asshole off the
wall. If you shoot your asshole and he does not
die but starts screaming, what do you do?
SAM: Other than shoot him again. We have a javelin
and that is all we've got.
ASHLY: I have rope, so I could tie the rope around
the javelin, (shoonk!), and pull him off the wall.
MARISHA: Makeshift harpoon? That's pretty cool.
SAM: Sure, let's do it!
ASHLY: Is that now a leading plan?
SAM: No, I'm still going to shoot and you're going
to be ready with jav.
LIAM: Or you could attack at the same time.
ASHLY: That's true.
LIAM: Said Liam.
MARISHA: Let's just do this. Come on.
ASHLY: Okay, I tie the rope around the javelin.
SAM: You message me a countdown and I'll say it
out loud to you.
ASHLY: I'm very scared.
MARISHA: We're going to wait for our guys to
pace--
LIAM: Yeah, the sequence of events is that you two
need to get onto the wall successfully.
MARISHA: Uh-huh, with Pass Without a Trace.
LIAM: You've got your javelin tied up.
ASHLY: It's ready, it's roped.
MATT: Battle-optimal position.
SAM and MARISHA: They're here.
LIAM: I say three, two, one.
MARISHA: Go, Pass without a Trace!
SAM: Three, two, one, go!
LIAM: No! Are they in place?
MARISHA: We're going.
SUMALEE: She's on my shoulders.
MARISHA: I'm on her shoulders, I'm up against this
fucking wall! You're doing this, I'm going to try
and (grunt)--
ASHLY: Then we're shooting at the same time?
SAM: We're shooting at the same time.
LIAM: I'm going to hold Hold Person until these
two are right under the guard.
MARISHA: I want to wait until right after he
passes, and then I want to do some ninja stuff.
SAM: Are you just sipping tea?
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: First, I need you to make a stealth check
because you're having to move right up against the
wall. This is a ten-foot clearing.
MARISHA: I do.
LIAM: Use the dodeca if you need to.
MARISHA: That's true.
MATT: Both of you guys roll stealth checks.
MARISHA: Mmm.
SUMALEE: Doesn't she get a plus ten to the
stealth?
MATT: It is a plus ten to stealth check.
MARISHA: Then that gives me a 20 total. Okay, 20.
SUMALEE: Oh shit, how did I get the same thing?
Look.
MARISHA: I cursed you!
SAM: You need to stealth too?
LIAM: Luck, you have luck still.
MATT: What's your total?
ASHLY: Does that apply to her, the Pass without a
Trace?
LIAM and MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: But you have a luck left.
SUMALEE: I have two luck points left, but I feel
like--
MATT: No, you have one because you used one last
game.
ASHLY: But we short rested, didn't we?
SUMALEE: Oh, we rested.
MATT: It's a long rest to come back.
LIAM: You got one left.
ASHLY: Farts.
SUMALEE: I think I need to hold that.
MATT: So 15 and 20? You're throwing a javelin and
you're firing.
SAM: Yeah.
ASHLY: Okay.
MATT: You both run up to the wall. You go ahead
and hoist up, hanging on the edge right there.
Walks past, doesn't seem to have noticed the both
of you.
SUMALEE and MARISHA: Woo!
MATT: Rolled a six on his perception. Would you
both make your attack rolls, please? Because you
are unseen, you have advantage on the attack.
ASHLY: On three?
LIAM: No, Caleb, seeing this, would've went drei,
zwei, eins. Hold Person.
ASHLY: That is a 15.
MATT: That just hits.
SAM: Natural 20.
ASHLY: Hell yes!
SAM: But you said advantage. So that was a three.
MATT: It was with advantage. Roll again just in
case you want to crit.
ASHLY: A one, no.
MATT: No, not at all. Let's roll your sneak attack
damage and double it on top because it's a crit,
and then take another shot.
LIAM: Take a shot!
SAM: 24 so far.
MATT: 24 points of damage from the first attack.
Go ahead and roll damage for the javelin.
ASHLY: Five.
MATT: It's 29 damage. As you throw the javelin up,
you get your shot, the next attack.
SAM: 24.
MATT: Roll damage for that one.
SAM: Nine.
MATT: You watch as-- (multiple impacts)-- and you
yank back. Make a strength check.
SAM: Come on!
ASHLY: No whammies. Ten?
MATT: (thud) You're dragging the corpse.
LIAM: Ten.
ALL: Ten!
MATT: Hand-over-hand, you're dragging the corpse.
He insta-dies, and then got pulled off and then
slammed onto the ground and is now being pulled
through the dirt and grass. Done, instantly. For
you, it's a wisdom saving throw.
LIAM: 16.
MATT: A natural 12 plus one, that's 13, it's a
fail.
LIAM: Oh, held!
MARISHA: He's held?
MATT: Yes.
MARISHA: As soon that I see that he's held, I am
going to jump up and try and grab him by the pants
and bash his head in and then throw him down.
MATT: Easy enough to do. Go ahead and make a
martial arts attack. Technically, you have
advantage because he's paralyzed.
MARISHA: Okay. Just a straight attack?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Okay. 16? No, sorry, 15?
MATT: That hits, it's an auto-crit because he's
held. Roll your martial arts damage.
MARISHA: Aw, I rolled a one. Plus two, plus four.
Six damage.
MATT: Six damage. You throw him to the ground. He
falls and takes an additional five points of
bludgeoning damage. After the fall, hits the
ground-- off the wall, on the backside of it, he's
now face down on the ground, still held.
MARISHA: I go: Nila, now!
SUMALEE: I take my shillelagh and just let him
have it (grunt).
MATT: Are you continuing your attack with her or
are you hanging, staying up on the wall?
MARISHA: I will finish my attack right as she
whacks her staff. I'm going to let go and try and
time it to where I land on the staff with her.
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and swing the attack. You
have advantage because he's paralyzed and prone.
SUMALEE: Okay, this is this.
MATT: Yep. Go ahead and roll that twice and take
the higher, adding your wisdom modifier.
SUMALEE: Ten plus four, so 14.
MATT: Plus your proficiency modifier, which is
plus three, so it would be--
SUMALEE: 17.
MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll your damage.
Should be a--
SUMALEE: Which is 1d8.
MATT: d8 plus four. But d8 times two because it's
critical.
ASHLY: Come on, Nila.
MATT: Well, it's-- oh, that's fine, we'll do that.
So that's nine-- add the two together-- it's nine
plus four. So 13 points of damage on top of that.
Right as you're slamming down, go ahead and make
your next attack.
MARISHA: Mm-hmm, 23.
MATT: With advantage, these are with advantage
because he's paralyzed and prone.
MARISHA: 23.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage, crit.
MARISHA: That's much better. Eight plus four, so
12 damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage. Yeah, that'll do it.
ASHLY: Fuck yes!
MATT: Both of them-- one was enjoying the wind and
then darkness forever. The other got a cramp and
then got bludgeoned from all sides after being
jammed in the dirt and then expired.
ASHLY: "Was enjoying the wind and then darkness
forever." Aw, that's so sad! Was it Phil?
MATT: It was the end of The Sopranos for them,
man. It was just--
ASHLY: Phil's asleep, Phil went to bed. It
switched, Phil's still alive. We should only leave
Phil alive if we can, just save Phil.
MATT: Hashtag save Phil.
SUMALEE: Phil is bad!
MATT: They are both done at the moment, it is
silent. There is a very slight sound of both their
bodies impacting in the dirt, but you're not sure
if that managed to reach as far as anybody within
the interior of the stronghold. What do you do now
in this moment?
SAM: Mr. Deuce, put on this cloak, if you don't
mind, and climb up onto there and patrol around,
if you don't mind.
TALIESIN: This Deuce thing's weird, I don't--
SAM: Mr. Clay!
MARISHA: I do the same thing. I slip into the
guard uniform.
TALIESIN: Do you think maybe we're going to want
some of these clothes at some point?
SAM: You can put his cloak on right now.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm really tall, but all right. I'm
also going to take a look at this guy they just
killed and commit his face and what he's wearing
to memory, just to put it in there.
MATT: Cool, no worries.
ASHLY: Then I'm going to hoist you up on top? Or
can you make it there yourself?
TALIESIN: How tall is the--?
MATT: It's about 12 feet. You might want to help
him; he's not the strongest person. Just make a
strength check. It's not too difficult.
ASHLY: A million. 24.
MATT: Yeah. You (grunt)-- you get on top of the
wall, you have the cloak on.
TALIESIN: I'm going to rope down really quick,
quietly, keeping an eye out.
SAM: Ooh, nice.
MARISHA: Would you mind giving me another boost
real quick?
SUMALEE: Not a problem at all.
MATT: Between your acrobatics and your ability,
your height, without an issue, you get to the top.
You guys now are on top of the wall, cloaked.
Where do you want to go?
MARISHA: I look over at Deuce and give a nod.
TALIESIN: You said that out of game and I can't
say anything about it.
LIAM: I send Frumpkin up into the air to do a
circle around the entire perimeter.
MATT: Perception check with advantage please.
ASHLY: Does this mean that they can see in the
windows on the second story now?
MATT: If they want to they can try.
LIAM: Achtzehn. 18.
MATT: Okay. There does not appear to be any person
in the courtyard. Those two guards are the only
two that were currently set on the outside. You
can see the horses that were pulling the carts
that are set over on the side at the moment. You
can see the carts that have since been repaired
and are currently waiting in rest. You can see the
front door to the stronghold, and you can see the
back door.
LIAM: Frumpkin saw all of this, yeah? Saw the
doors, all of that? I'm going to creep my way to
the front door and as I go, I'm going to cast
Detect Magic.
MATT: You're still on the outside of the wall.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: You have to make your way through the
perimeter of the wall, which has its own front
gate, which is closed. Do you want to head to
that?
LIAM: Right, to the outer wall.
MATT: The outer wall and out that way, okay. Cast
Detect Magic?
LIAM: Yeah. I will wait until I am within 30 feet
of the wall and then I do so, I will mutter a few words.
TALIESIN: I get a free Disguise Self that doesn't
actually count against any of my slots.
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Sexy.
TALIESIN: I'm going to be a guard. I'm going to be
the guy we just snuffed.
MATT: Easy enough to do.
LIAM: I like this guy.
TALIESIN: That's cool, I haven't done this.
MATT: As you give the Deuce your nod, you watch as
his form actually shifts smaller and matches the
shape of the previous guard.
SAM: Mr. Clay!
ASHLY: Cool trick!
MATT: Finishing your Detect Magic, you do not
detect anything magical of the outer gate. It is locked.
ASHLY: Are we going in together? Should we do back
entrance/front entrance?
MARISHA: I can unlock the front entrance for you
guys.
LIAM: I take my wire and I say: Nott are you on
the ground still? Can you meet me at the front
gates quietly?
SAM: Yeah, give us a minute. I am going to rifle
through the dude's pockets and go through the guy
we just killed's stuff.
MATT: Okay. Make an investigation check, because
you're doing this quickly.
SAM: 15.
MATT: 15? Not too bad.
MARISHA: Do we want to go front entrance/back
entrance?
MATT: You manage to pilfer about 62 gold pieces.
SAM: 62?!
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Why is he so rich?!
MATT: Because you caught him at the moment outside
of the town and he had his money on him.
SAM: But does he have anything else useful, like
keys?
MATT: No keys on him, no.
MARISHA: Yeah, make sure we get the gold out of
our dude's pockets, you're right there on the ground.
SAM: Okay, cool. Anything else?
MATT: He felt safe on that wall.
SAM: Anything else useful? No.
MATT: The crossbow that he had seems to have
snapped in the process of his body being yanked
from the top of the wall. His armor is standard
leather armor.
SAM: Okay, great.
MARISHA: Is there anything on the dude's armor
that I put on?
MATT: You didn't stop to check, you're already up
on the wall.
SUMALEE: I can check.
MATT: If you want to. Make an investigation
check.
SUMALEE: 17, what do I add?
MARISHA: Investigation.
SUMALEE and MARISHA: Minus one.
SUMALEE: 16.
MATT: 16, okay. You find 22 gold pieces.
SUMALEE: Added to my ten, that seems like a lot.
MATT: And a pack of crossbow bolts, 16 crossbow
bolts.
SAM: Totally useful.
LIAM: Waiting very anxiously for my life partner.
SAM: Oh! Yes, let's go! Oh, not you. You stay up
there. Let's go, but be stealthy.
MATT: I'd like you both to roll stealth check with
disadvantage.
SAM: Wait, with advantage?
MATT: Disadvantage for her because of her armor.
LIAM: Oh, son of a fuck, come on Ash.
SAM and LIAM: Okay.
LIAM: Don't go lower than that, that's got to be
the worst.
SAM: That was the worst. Still not great.
ASHLY: This is the worst?
SAM: No.
LIAM: Seven plus--
ASHLY: Seven plus five.
MATT: Okay, 12, good to know.
MARISHA: I say: Meet at the front gate.
SUMALEE: Okay.
MATT: You're going stealth as well? Roll a stealth
check. please.
ASHLY: Oh god, why'd I get plate armor?
MARISHA: I think you still have Pass Without a
Trace on.
MATT: You do, so that's plus ten.
SUMALEE: Oh, thank goodness. Thank you.
MARISHA: Lasts for like ten minutes, I think.
SUMALEE: 14
MARISHA: Lasts for an hour?
SUMALEE and MATT: Up to an hour.
SUMALEE: Okay, so this is four plus ten.
MATT: Okay. Eventually, the four of you meet
towards the front gate, seemingly, from what you
can tell, no one's noticed.
TALIESIN: From my vantage point, I'm going to see
if there's anybody in the courtyard, or if there's
anything-- since I'm up there now.
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: I signal to Deuce. I don't know what else
to call you.
TALIESIN: Clay, if you have to.
MARISHA: Clay.
TALIESIN: Caduceus Clay. 16.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Hey, look at the windows, too.
TALIESIN: They're nice.
SAM: Oh no!
TALIESIN: I'm looking in the windows.
MATT: Okay, you see nobody else inside the
courtyard. You occasionally see the flickering
movement. It looks like firelight is the source of
light that's coming through the two windows on the
two sides of the facility you can see. No movement
yet.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to slowly start pacing
around towards the front. I'm also going to look
into the windows. Do I see anything from my
vantage point?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Natural 20! Thanks, Gil!
MATT: Okay, you feel like you have a pretty good
eye on those two sides of the interior windows.
You do not see any movement yet, but you're pretty
locked on. What are the four of you guys doing now
that you've met at the front gate?
LIAM: We're at the front gate?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Okay, I can get this open, but I would
prefer to preserve my reserves, so can you get
this door open?
SAM: Sure, I'll pick the lock. 16 plus stuff. It's
plus four plus three or something like that? Is
that right?
MATT: That's your dexterity modifier plus your
proficiency modifier.
SAM: Yeah, plus seven.
MATT: All right; yeah.
SAM: So 23.
MATT: 23, okay. You take a moment and there are
two specific locks that are chained; one on each
side that are closed. The one that's nearest to
you, easy enough. The one on the opposite side,
you have to pull out one of your metallic hooks
that slips through a space in the wood and manage
to pull it up on the side a little bit. You're
essentially reverse-picking it with two hooked
picks from the opposite side. It takes you a
little longer, until eventually it hangs.
LIAM: I miss being a rogue every day.
SAM: So far, everything's going great--
ASHLY: Why did you say that?
SAM: And we should assume that everything will
continue to go great.
ASHLY: Oh god, okay.
LIAM: I pull out the wire and get it between my
hands and whisper up to Beauregard: Are we good?
Is everything good up there from what you can see?
Are we good?
MARISHA: Coast looks clear. I don't know why I did
this with my fingers.
ASHLY: Okay, now we have a choice. We could just
try to go downstairs and get your friends.
LIAM: There is another door over there. Let's get
to that door.
ASHLY: The back door?
LIAM: We're at the front gate.
MATT: You guys are over there.
ASHLY: Oh duh, okay. All right.
MATT: You're making your way into the courtyard
now.
LIAM: Yeah, so we have to get to that door.
MATT: This door or this door. Your choice.
ASHLY: That's the front?
MATT: That's the front.
TALIESIN: Or you could meet me at the corner,
since I'm walking around the-- Oh, I'm on the
outer. I'm not in the center area yet?
MATT: Technically, Beau, you guys are walking
perimeter on the outside wall. The rest of you
cats are currently, essentially, over that way.
You guys have just passed through the gate on that
side, where it's open and allowing you into the
courtyard.
SAM: Caleb, I trust you. Where do we go, back--
LIAM: There's no magic on the front door, right?
MATT: You're still focusing as you come inside?
LIAM: It's like ten minutes, so I've probably got
four or five minutes left.
MATT: Yeah, no magic that you notice on the front
door of the fortress.
LIAM: I think that we should cut around the side
and go to the back. They will probably be
expecting that less.
ASHLY: That leads into the kitchen, too. There
shouldn't be anyone in the kitchen.
LIAM: Yeah, okay.
SAM: Okay, but wait. Can we get Beau and Mr. Clay
down here as well to help?
LIAM: I think we should leave them for the moment
to keep appearances up.
SAM: Well then, in that case, can you carry Keg?
ASHLY: Oh yeah, could you carry me?
SUMALEE: I would love to.
LIAM: Okay, but are you able to-- I don't
understand your people's ways, but are you able to
help her the way you helped Beauregard earlier?
SAM: Oh yes, you could use that spell that you
used earlier.
LIAM: That ability you had to make Beauregard--
MARISHA: It's within 30 feet of her, so yeah, I
think she should be good? But I think you have to
cast it on the people within 30 feet of you.
SAM: Recast!
MATT: For the duration, each creature you choose
within 30 feet of you.
LIAM: So you could drop it and do it again.
SAM: Wait, for the duration--
MARISHA: For the duration, each creature you
choose within 30 feet?
LIAM: Who has it now?
TALIESIN: I think it's as long as they're within
30 feet, it's like a field and you can say yea or
nay. That's my view.
MATT: It doesn't say at the moment of casting you
have to select; just that for the duration you
choose. So, my interpretation, I would allow
someone to step into the radius, and you could
then choose.
SAM: Okay, so we know better. We know you don't
have to cast it.
ASHLY: I'll snuggle up to Nila.
SUMALEE: I choose Keg.
LIAM: Let's tippy-toe around the back door.
SAM: Okay, let's go!
MATT: All right, everyone who's now making their
way around the back, make another stealth check.
ASHLY: Am I at disadvantage now? Still?
MATT: You're still at disadvantage, because you
still have your armor.
ASHLY: So two plus ten plus five. 17.
LIAM: I miss Vax so much.
SAM: 23.
LIAM: 14.
TALIESIN: Plus ten.
LIAM: Plus ten, whatever it is.
SUMALEE: 12.
MATT: Okay. You guys begin to head around this
direction?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right. Going past the barrel pile where
you had previously made your way in and out via
owl the previous day. As you guys scoot past, you
hear the front door of the facility (thudding)
(creaking). It opens ever so faintly to the
inside, and a figure peers out, having apparently
heard something.
MARISHA: We don't see that?
SAM: No, we already went--
LIAM: No, these two. We asked them if they saw
anything right before we went.
MARISHA: I didn't see that.
MATT: You see a figure poke the head out and look
curiously.
TALIESIN: Sorry!
MATT: "What?" Make a deception check, with
advantage given that fact that it's in the
darkness and not an unexpected scenario.
TALIESIN: Natural 20.
ASHLY: Hell yes!
MATT: Guard looks past and closes the door.
ASHLY: Oh my god. I'm going to have an ulcer after
this game!
TALIESIN: Nah.
MATT: You guys all continue to the back of the
facility.
ASHLY: Except Keg.
SUMALEE: No, you are with me. We're together.
MATT: You guys are at the back door.
LIAM: I'm going to guess that I have two or three
minutes left on Detect Magic, so does the door
seem clear of that?
MATT: The door seems to be clear of magic.
TALIESIN: Who do I see on the front door, by the
way, really? What did he look like? I don't know
who he was, but--
MATT: From what you can look at, it looked to be
humanoid, it was hard to tell at this distance
with the little bit of firelight you saw. Hood was
down. Short, black hair, looked a bit sallow.
Young, but probably looked older than they were--
MARISHA: Kill it! Kill it!
ASHLY: Aww, damn.
MATT: Nah, that would have been cool.
LIAM: It was on my iPad!
MATT: I should have run with it. You're at the
back door.
LIAM: Luck, luck, luck. Is there any gap between
the bottom of the door and the floor that Frumpkin
could fit through right now?
MATT: There is a very faint bit that a spider
could fit though, yes.
LIAM: In you go, buddy. Hold on to my hand,
please.
ASHLY: We could do a hand chain.
SAM: You're not with us.
TALIESIN: Aww, damn it.
LIAM: Telepathically, I tell Frumpkin to crawl up
the other side of the door and go onto the ceiling.
MATT: All right. Frumpkin is now up, and there is
a kitchen.
TALIESIN: Sandwiches!
SAM: What?
MATT: There is a kitchen, you can see there is an
oven. There looks to be a bunch of dirty dishes
that have just piled up and haven't been washed in
a while. There is a path that goes to the right
and further down this hallway, and there is a door
that leads further in.
LIAM: Nila didn't tell us anything about a kitchen
from her--
MARISHA: Yeah, she did.
MARISHA: The hallway down the right is the one we
want to go to, if I remember correctly.
SUMALEE: With the trapdoor.
MARISHA: With the trapdoor, yep.
LIAM: Well, that's where I will send Frumpkin
along the ceiling. Then when he gets to a door, he
can go down the door and under, if there is a gap,
and then up the door.
MATT: Okay. That's through into this hallway,
which currently ends in two more doors. This way
and that way.
LIAM: Are all these doors so far the same? They
are loose?
MATT: They are loose. I mean, as far as small
gaps in between, very, very tiny.
LIAM: A half-inch for Frumpkin?
MATT: Yep.
ASHLY: Would I be able to tell him which way to
go?
MATT: He wouldn't be able to hear you.
LIAM: I don't hear shit right now. I will send
Frumpkin through the next gap.
MATT: Which one? There's two different doors. This
way or this way.
LIAM: No, you can't tell me anything.
TALIESIN: Here, have a laser pointer.
SAM: Here is a laser pointer, Liam O'Brien.
LIAM: I will do this one here.
MATT: All right. Frumpkin moves into this chamber,
which unveils this chamber. In this chamber, you
see a dining area of some kind, and you see there
are two of the hired guards in the process of
finishing an evening drink.
SAM: Was it Phil and the other guy?
MARISHA: Is it Phil?
MATT: One of them is Phil. One of them is the
other guy. Looks like they're having a nightcap.
ASHLY: Are they drunk?
MATT: They've been drinking. You have no idea if
they're drunk. Frumpkin sees the two of them
hushedly chatting to one other and drinking from
tankards.
LIAM: I will have Frumpkin back away, under the
crack.
MATT: Okay. Make a stealth check for Frumpkin
because now you are in eyesight of--
LIAM: He is so little. He is so small.
MATT: I know.
LIAM: Just one roll? That's okay. Hold on,
everybody. 14. Wait, everything's crazy. I need a
different browser window.
MATT: What did you roll?
LIAM: Well, I rolled a 14 but it's better than
that, it's 16.
MATT: That's fine. They do not see Fumpkin. They
have had just enough to drink where they did not
see Frumpkin.
LIAM: (singing) The Itsy Bitsy Spider.
MATT: Frumpkin is going where?
LIAM: Back under that door, and he will peeky-poo
under the door he has not checked yet.
MATT: Okay. That leads into another chamber, a
hallway, that continues down and then seems to
open into another walkway.
LIAM: Yeah, this door. This one here.
MATT: Frumpkin goes and opens that one, which
leads into another hallway, a very small chamber,
and there are a couple of odd pieces of dried
goods in the corners, and a wooden trapdoor.
LIAM: To the bottom.
SAM: Trapdoor to the bottom?
MATT: Seems to be a trapdoor.
LIAM: Any cracks that are a half-inch wide, big
enough for a spider?
MATT: No.
LIAM: I remember this. Okay. That's a wall covered
by that paper there that you don't need to
uncover, right?
MATT: That is a wall, yes.
LIAM: Back out of this, I know where I am. I will
go along the wall here. Frumpkin will crawl on the
wall. Oh, you can't see where I'm pointing.
MATT: On the wall over here?
LIAM: Yeah, and crawl around the corner and peek
around the corner into that colored spot.
MATT: Okay. Revealing that. It looks, and you can
see this has been storage. Because Frumpkin
entered, this is all kitchen storage, and looking
down this hall--
LIAM: This is too complicated for me to mutter, so
I'm not telling everybody this. This is too complicated.
MATT: That is the gist of what you've seen.
SAM: Wow, that's the whole layout, Frumpy.
MATT: You don't know how much of this will stay.
SAM: Sure glad we chose a spider!
MARISHA: I take back mocking you for your choice.
LIAM: I don't hear anything, and you're nowhere
near me. What I will do is send Frumpkin down this
hallway, because I did not go this way yet.
MATT: Turning around this way, you can see the
spiral staircase, the very same where you had
briefly managed to dodge Lorenzo earlier in the
day, heading up to the second floor.
LIAM: I remember this from her stories, so I will
continue Frumpkin up the stairs.
SAM: Up the stairs? Oh god, why? Why would you do
that?
LIAM: Time is passing, because he's not that
quick.
MATT: Right as Frumpkin passes that way, this door
opens up, and one of the two guards heads this
way. A little sloppy, but turns and--
LIAM: We'll make for the wall at that point.
MATT: "Ew." He starts walking up, and goes in to
try and step on Frumpkin.
LIAM: What does Frumpkin need to do, armor class,
right?
MATT: Yeah, what's Frumpkin's armor class?
LIAM: Zwlf.
MATT: With disadvantage. That's 12. It goes ahead
and stomps down. That's a hit point.
LIAM: He scurries away-- No, he scurries up onto
the wall, up onto the ceiling.
MATT: What's the speed for Frumpkin?
LIAM: 20 feet.
MATT: Okay. The guard is like, "Ugh. Hey, Phil?"
(laughter)
MATT: "What? What's the problem?" "There's a
fucking spider in here."
LIAM: There's a bug in this world, and I won't
rest until he's dead.
TALIESIN: The most realistic thing I've ever--
MATT: Heads back into the room and comes back with
these two metal tankards that are dinged up, and
they both start throwing them up to try and smash
the spider. With that, the first one misses and
(clatters) down the stairs.
LIAM: Matt, I don't know if this will happen in
time, but what I tell him to do telepathically,
because I should be close enough, 100 feet, is to
go in here, through this door that's open, and
over the door and down the back, and once he's out
of sight, I will poof him out, if that works. They
might hit him before it happens.
MATT: Well, the first two slams, or tossing of
tankards, clanging loudly, do not hit.
MARISHA: I thought it was going to blow our
cover.
LIAM: It's a spider!
MATT: They both turn around and follow like,
"Where did it go?", "It's this way!" and they both
come back inside the room, trying to follow where
Frumpkin went.
LIAM: But he disappears in the back of the door.
MATT: They both look around like, "Shit. Ugh. I
can't sleep now with that thing around here. Keep
"looking." That's the last thing that Frumpkin
hears before vanishing.
SAM: Oh boy.
LIAM: That was wild. Okay. Yes. Oh, hi. Again.
There's two of them. I pull a wire out and I aim
towards my friends on the horses. There's two of
them. Six seconds go by. There's two of them on
the first floor. What do we do?
SAM: What do we do now? Should we go in?
ASHLY: Do we have any sense if their clanging
disturbed anything?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: Did you see a way to downstairs?
ASHLY: 14.
MATT: You're listening right now. You don't hear
anything, but you're also on the opposite side of
where anybody else would be. So you have no idea.
LIAM: I saw what the firbolg woman told us about.
There is a trapdoor not too far from us here.
SAM: Why don't we go try to get down to it?
LIAM: (whispers) Ja, okay, that's good. We have
to be very quiet.
SUMALEE: There may be murderers inside the trap
door.
LIAM: Here's what we do. Frumpkin, I take
Frumpkin. Oh, there's Frumpkin. I place Frumpkin
on your shoulder.
SAM: Yes?
LIAM: You have to go in this door and I'm going to
talk into your ear. I'm going to hold Keg's
shoulder and I am going to talk into your ear and
tell you which way to go to get you to the
trapdoor. Okay, and you have to be very quiet.
ASHLY: By yourself?
LIAM: Yeah, and see if that trapdoor is open. If
it is, you will put my spider underneath and we
will see what is going on.
SAM: If the trapdoor is open?
LIAM: If it's unlocked.
SAM: Oh, if it's unlocked. Okay, got it.
LIAM: Do not go in yourself right away, send in
Frumpkin to look. I will be watching the whole time.
SAM: All right.
MATT: Are you drinking to the point of
intoxication?
SAM: No, just one big swig.
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Okay, let's go.
MATT: All right.
SAM: Got to pick a lock first, or check the door.
MATT: Make an investigation check on the door.
SAM: 24.
MATT: 24. The door is indeed locked.
SAM: I will try to pick it.
MATT: Go ahead and roll for that. Plus six.
SAM: It was 22.
MATT: That's still enough, anyways.
SAM: That does not work.
MATT: What did you roll?
SAM: It was a two plus whatever I said before,
seven.
MATT: No. You fear breaking one of your lockpicks;
you remove it.
SAM: I can't do it!
LIAM: It's fine.
SAM: Ooh! Push open the door with your massive
strength.
ASHLY: The noise.
LIAM: Halt, I cast--
SAM: Can you get us in?
LIAM: Ja. I cast Knock on the door.
SUMALEE: I was just looking!
MATT: As you guys are having this conversation,
you see Caleb flicker his hands through the air,
his eyes focused in a distant stare for a moment.
You see this strange blue energy sparkle around
the outside of the doorknob and the door opens.
SAM: Wait, did you cast a spell? Oh, oh wow. Okay,
that was easy. All right, focus up.
ASHLY: Nott, be careful.
SAM: You care about me?
ASHLY: Yeah.
LIAM: At every turn-- Listen to me. At every turn,
when you can go left or right, if Frumpkin, who
will be resting on your ear, tickles the inside of
the ear, it means go right. If nothing happens, go left.
SAM: Inside-- tickle, right.
LIAM: Tickle means right.
SAM: Nothing, left. Liam eats farts. I'm ready.
LIAM: You've got it.
SAM: Got it.
LIAM and SAM: Tickle means right.
MARISHA: I do another check to see if I see any
movement upstairs.
MATT: You're still keeping tabs on it. I'm not
going to have you roll just for consistently staring.
MARISHA: I just want to make sure.
MATT: Okay, you do see a shadow pass by the door--
by the window.
MARISHA: By the window.
SAM: I cast Mage Hand just in case.
MATT: Okay. What do you do?
SAM: I will go through and wait for a tickle.
LIAM: My hand is on Keg's shoulder in case things
go to shit.
MATT: To the right is a hallway, an open entrance
that goes into a pantry or storage room. To the
left is a door that leads beyond the kitchen.
LIAM: Tickle means right; left is nothing.
SAM: Is there a tickle?
LIAM: No.
SAM: I will go straight.
MATT: You're at a door.
SAM: I will try the door.
MATT: It opens, it's not locked.
LIAM: Tickle, tickle.
MATT: You feel a tickle.
SAM: I turn right.
MATT: Make a stealth check, please, because you're
now passing within ear shot of--
SAM: That's a one!
ASHLY: No!
MATT: Okay. As you turn the corner, part of your
cloak seems to have caught the edge of one of the
pots that was layered on the table right here. As
you pull through, pots start clattering. You guys
watch as this whole stack of pots start pulling
off into the kitchen. The door here swings open
and both of these figures come rushing in. "Hey,
what the hell!" They both pull out blades.
LIAM: I drop it. We're in, go! I walk into the
building.
MATT: All right, roll initiative, you guys.
MARISHA: All right.
ASHLY: Oh fuck.
SAM: The rogue blew it.
MARISHA: The rogue did blow it!
LIAM: That's not what I expected.
MARISHA: Don't die!
ASHLY: Ten?
MATT: All righty. 25 to 20?
LIAM: 21.
MARISHA: Also 21. I'm actually going ahead and
roll my d8 with this as well. Plus seven, 29.
Sorry, 28.
LIAM: Did the sound of clattering pans clatter
outside?
MATT: What do you mean?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Did we hear it?
LIAM: Did the people outside hear it?
MATT: You guys would have heard it very faintly.
Because the door was open, and it did fill what
was normally a pretty still evening. That brings
us to them. All right. That brings us to 20 to 15.
SAM: 15.
SUMALEE: 18.
MATT: 18, all right. Nott... all right. 15 to ten?
ASHLY: Ten.
TALIESIN: 12.
MARISHA: Wait, who was a 12? You?
MATT: All right, I think that's everyone. Top of
the combat round at this moment. Beau, you're up first.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Hearing this noise, you are on the wall at
this point keeping an eye. You guys would probably
be at angles here if you maintained patrol and
tried to case both sides.
MARISHA: I want to look at the window. Do I see
that figure I just saw? Does it seem like the pots
and pans got that figure's attention and they're
hastily moving?
MATT: You saw them move casually past one window
and then move quicker past the other.
MARISHA: Okay, where am I?
MATT: You're over here, on the wall.
MARISHA: I'm over there.
MATT: You guys have been on the wall this whole
time, so you're right over here. Essentially about
that high.
MARISHA: Okay, I am going to-- do I try and make a
distraction or run?
SUMALEE: Good question.
MARISHA: I'm going to light one of those
firecrackers again, and I'm going to toss it this
direction towards the front of the door.
SUMALEE: Yes.
MATT: Okay, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
MARISHA: Natural 20!
MATT: Where directly do you want to aim it?
MARISHA: I want to try and aim it to where it
sounds like there's a commotion happening at this
front door to draw people this way and not at the
back.
MATT: You go ahead and you throw it. It lands.
It's going to take a second for it to go off, but
it definitely seems to have rolled passed and over
in the vicinity just past that corner.
MARISHA: I'm assuming that was my action?
MATT: That was your action, and I'll say bonus
action to pull it out, light it and throw.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to use my movement to
just haul ass towards these guys.
MATT: Along the wall?
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: All right. (counting) That's about as far as
you can get right there.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Ending your turn. Caleb you're up.
LIAM: I slap my hand down on Keg's shoulder and I,
with a free hand, stick licorice root into my
mouth and start chewing and squeeze her shoulder
and you are Hasted. And I will-- a couple of
things, and I can't find my card right now, but
you have a plus two to your AC, you have advantage
on dexterity saving throws, and an additional
action on each of your turns.
MATT: So you can have four attacks in a single
round.
LIAM: You are very fast right now.
MATT: And your movement is twice as much. So you
have 50 feet a turn.
LIAM: I start moving into the building, as far as
I can, actually. Behind Nott.
MATT: I'll put this on Keg as a reminder. So you
move in (counting) right there?
LIAM: By the doorway? Yeah, that's good.
MATT: All right, that finishes your go.
LIAM: Pressing into the wall there, so that people
can get by me.
MATT: All right. One of them shouts, "We got
company!" over his shoulder, behind.
LIAM: Oh, that's terrible.
MATT: A natural 19 on the dice. Going to move in
here, this one is going to move in as well. They
are probably going to move right there. They're
both going to make attacks on Nott.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: The first one is going to be a 13 to hit.
SAM: Miss!
MATT: You duck out of the way. You see the short
sword they pull spark across the stone, carving
down the side. No impact. The other one uses that
moment to try and swing at you. That's equally
terrible! That's far worse, actually. That's a
six.
SAM: Miss.
MATT: Both of them (whooshing), no effect, but
they're both shouting back over their shoulders
like, "Intruder! Company!" That finishes their go.
Nila, you're up first.
SUMALEE: Should I put my spirit totem now to give
us extra strength?
LIAM: That's up to you.
SUMALEE: It will only get within 30 feet around,
so Beau would not be covered.
MARISHA: I'm coming into you, though. I'm coming
into you guys.
SUMALEE: So when she moves into that-- Nila wants
to go inside.
MATT: You move inside. (counting)
SUMALEE: As close as I can get toward the trapdoor.
MATT: 25, 30. You can get right into that doorway
right there.
SUMALEE: Then can I take my shillelagh?
MATT: Unfortunately, you cannot get close enough
to hit them physically. You're too far away from
the combat.
SUMALEE: Wait. Within ten feet of one of them?
MATT: Yes.
SUMALEE: Poison Spray.
MATT: All right, Poison Spray. Yeah, that one
creatures does, has a ten feet range. Okay. It
makes a constitution saving throw. That is a
failure with a natural five, so roll damage on
that. It is a 2d12, right? Plus 1d12. Does this
damage increase as you level up?
SUMALEE: I think so. I wasn't sure.
MATT: A lot of cantrips do. Yes, it does, so roll
2d12.
SUMALEE: One. 11.
MATT: 12 points of poison damage to the one on the
left there. All of a sudden, as Nila rounds the
corner, extending your hand, this sudden plume of
dark purplish-black gas emanates around their
face. They begin coughing horribly as it stings
the inside of their lungs and throat. That
finishes your turn? That brings us to Nott.
SAM: Oh Jesus. I will bonus action disengage, and
run through the door that the spider told me to go through.
MATT: Which one?
SAM: The closed one.
MATT: All right, you go to that door. It's
locked.
SAM: Locked? Great, I'll go through the other
door.
MATT: You can use your action to try and fast pick
it, if you like. It's up to you. Because you can
do that as a rogue.
SAM: Sure, I'll do that. I'll fast pick.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Pick fast. 12.
MATT: 12? It holds tight.
SAM: Sure. I have any more movement?
MATT: You have currently 20 feet.
SAM: I will run into the next room, as far as I
can get.
MATT: (counting) That puts you right there. That
ends your go. It is now Clay's turn.
SAM: Wait, did she give me any bonuses? No, right?
Did you do your order of the totem thing?
MATT: No, she did not do her totem.
TALIESIN: Ah man. I guess I'm going to take 60
feet of running to find out what that commotion is
on the other--
MATT: You're about there.
TALIESIN: Actually, would I have gone for the
front door or-- No, I would have gone for the
back. That's what I got.
MATT: Ending your go; Keg, you're up.
ASHLY: Because I'm hasted, can I get right in
front of Nila?
MATT: (counting) Yeah, easily. Whoa, you dart
past. Nila's standing there--
LIAM: She's got another ten feet.
MATT: Yes, she does. Nila's standing there,
finishes the Poison Spray, suddenly there's this
blur of speed, plate, and hair as Keg rushes by
Nila's side, actually causing the edge of her
clothing to ripple up and back down into place.
They're both there, right in your face, and they
watch as you emerge. They don't even have time to
process what you are. You're just a shape and
anger, and they're like, "Whoa!" What do you want
to do?
ASHLY: I'm going to smack the poisoned one with my
battleaxe.
MATT: All right, go for it. First attack.
ASHLY: 17 to hit.
MATT: That hits, roll damage.
ASHLY: Okay, and then 1d8 plus four. That's
eight.
MATT: Eight points of damage. (smack) He looks
hurt, like between the poison gas and that he's
hurt. He's not down yet, but he's looking rough.
ASHLY: Okay, I'm going to smack him again, this
time with the warhammer, why not, just for fun.
That will be 15 plus seven. I can't do math.
MATT: 15 plus seven? Yeah, 25, that hits. Roll
damage.
ASHLY: Then that is 11.
MATT: 11. With that, he's (smack), "What the--?!"
Second hit and he goes down like a sack of potatoes.
(cheering)
MATT: He is on the ground, not moving. His friend
just sees it, goes, "What?!"
ASHLY: Then I have another action. I'm going to
smack him, the friend that's still there. 11?
MATT: 11. This time, seeing this go down, he
dodges out of the way and your weapon scrapes
across the outside of the door frame, actually
cutting a bit into it. You have to pull it out.
Still have your bonus action if you wanted to do a
fourth attack.
ASHLY: I do want to do a fourth attack. I'm going
to try again. 12.
MATT: 12. Unfortunately, he just manages to duck
twice. The second time actually gleans off the
shoulder, but the armor's too thick. No impact.
ASHLY: Should I do action surge?
SAM: Yeah!
LIAM: No! Tell her nothing!
MATT: What do you want to do?
ASHLY: I'm going to use action surge, I guess. No,
I'm not. I have a little bit more movement, right?
MATT: You have ten feet of movement, yes.
ASHLY: Can I get between him and Nott?
MATT: You can move (counting). You can't quite get
between the two of them, but you can be wedged
into the doorway. If they try to move away from
you, you will get an attack of opportunity if you
want to take one as a reaction.
ASHLY: Okay.
MATT: That ends your turn. Back at the top. Beau,
you're up.
MARISHA: Okay. Have I heard my cherry bomb go
off?
MATT: Not quite yet, because it's on an initiative
of 20.
MARISHA: Oh, what? Amazing. Okay. I'm going to
move my full speed, my 40 feet. Does it get me in?
MATT: Make an acrobatics check to leap off the
wall.
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: 14, that's enough. You get right to the
kitchen.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: You're just at the door. That's your full
movement.
MARISHA: I'm going to use-- no. I'm going to use
my action to move again, to dash.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Nope, I'm going to go that way.
MATT: (counting)
MARISHA: Okay. I don't want to peek around the
wall; I want to ninja dash around, and I want to
get up against the wall, peek, and look for anyone
who might be coming around that hall.
MATT: Okay, gotcha.
MARISHA: As I ran by, I went: Psst! To Caleb, to
let him know that I was here and going that way.
MATT: You glance over just to see this quick flash
of Beau disappearing down the hallway.
LIAM: Blue fabric?
MARISHA: I'm like: I'm going to watch this way.
Watch for me!
MATT: Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Yeah, I should be able to see just over or
under Nila's legs or something, that one last asshole?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: I'm going to do a fastball special, a Fire
Bolt, at him.
MATT: Roll an attack.
SAM: Is this Phil, or is this his friend?
ASHLY: Oh yeah, did we kill Phil?
MATT: No, Phil's the one standing.
ASHLY: (laughs) Sorry, Phil.
SAM: Leave him alive! He must live!
LIAM: I rolled a 15 to hit Phil.
SAM: These guys are human?
MATT: 15 to hit Phil, that hits.
LIAM: Oh, gut!
SAM: These guys are humans?
MATT: One of them was human, one looked to be
half-elf. Phil is the half-elf. You see this
younger looking guy--
LIAM: (gasps) I rolled a ten. Out of ten.
MATT: Ooh.
ASHLY: Oh.
LIAM: (whoosh)
MATT: So ten, plus?
LIAM: That's it, it's just a cantrip.
MATT: Right, cantrip, at 5th-level, it does 2d10.
LIAM: Does it? Okay.
MATT: Yeah. Cantrips get better.
LIAM: 13.
MATT: Okay. 13 points of damage. You feel the
sudden burst of warm air up under your outfit for
a moment, Nila, as this fire bolt goes firing
through from between your legs and explodes into
the chest of the guard in front of you. (yells)
Backs up, and the flames lick up the front of his
armor before he pats them out for a second. That
finish your turn, Caleb?
LIAM: Part of me really likes the way fire feels.
That's it.
MATT: Finishing Caleb's go.
LIAM: Ah, no. I'm going to back up ten feet.
MATT: He's right there. Knock the chair over as
you back up. At this point, you guys all hear,
echoing off in the distance, (popping). Small
firecrackers are now exploding on the outside of
the front fortress (popping).
MARISHA: Let's hope this works the way I have in
my head.
SUMALEE: Yes! Blow them up!
MATT: Nott, as you were looking off, you see a
shape run past and start heading for the door. You see--
SAM: Running past where? Oh, there.
MATT: Past this way, you see a figure make their
way to the door, and put their back to it. They
haven't noticed you yet.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: As they put their back to the door, focusing
on where the sound of those fireworks go off,
looks back through the doorway, into the middle of
the mess hall, hears this commotion and looks
right to you.
SAM: Wait, sees me or doesn't see me?
MATT: Does see you. Because you're not trying to
hide and it is a lit interior. This is Wohn. This
is the female human barbarian that had rushed
Caleb before. Previously had a great maul.
However, is instead wielding a very familiar
two-handed greatsword. Wide blade with runic hilt.
The weapon that Yasha had on her--
SAM: Oh, that's right, they had the weapons.
Shit.
MATT: However, that's her turn. That brings us to
Nila. You're up.
SUMALEE: Okay. I want to get to the trapdoor.
LIAM: What do you do, mom?
SUMALEE: Yes. I would like to move. Oh wait, he's
not dead yet.
MATT: He is not. You can just barely see another
individual who appears to be joining the fray
across the way. One of the slavers that is
responsible for taking your family.
LIAM: Fucking slavers.
SUMALEE: Okay. I'd like to move forward and finish
off Phil.
MATT: Okay.
SUMALEE: Sorry.
MARISHA: Mother's vengeance. Fuck you, Phil!
MATT: Are you going Poison Spray, or you going--
SUMALEE: I'm going to use the shillelagh.
MATT: Okay. You step in--
MARISHA: (singing) I can feel it coming in the air
tonight.
SAM: (synth drums)
SUMALEE: This is for my son, Asar!
MATT: Go for it. Swing for the attack. Actually,
you could, if you wanted to, I'll allow you to
move in to flank with Keg. That'll give you
advantage on the attack roll.
SUMALEE: Oh, thank you. 12 plus--
ASHLY: You get to roll one more.
MATT: Plus seven, so that would be 18. So roll one
more time.
SUMALEE: 18, or... eh, 18.
MATT: We'll take the 18. So that hits. Go ahead
and roll damage. That's a d8 plus four.
SUMALEE: Six.
MATT: All right. Ten points of damage. You rush in
(whack!), as you clock Phil on the side of his
head, it slams him against the stone wall. He's
like, "Ugh!" His eyes rolling within his skull. He
looks pretty heavily beaned. Still conscious, but
pretty badly beat up at this point. That finish
your turn?
SUMALEE: No. Now I would like to place my spirit
totem. I want to do it as close to the trapdoor
as I can to hopefully protect as many people
inside.
MATT: You have no visual, unfortunately, because
this door is still closed and locked. All you can
see is what's in this room, this kitchen, and this
chamber here. You have no visual on the trapdoor.
SUMALEE: But I know it's there. I know it's there
from when I--
MATT: You know where it is, yes.
SUMALEE: I feel like I-- Yes, I'm going to do it.
LIAM: Redrum.
SUMALEE: What?
LIAM: Whatever you want, Sumalee!
SUMALEE: I don't know!
LIAM: I'm being a nerd. Have fun!
SUMALEE: Yes, okay. I place my Bear Spirit Totem.
MATT: Okay, so you're taking the totem.
SUMALEE: This will protect anyone who comes within
30 feet of it.
MATT: For the next minute, yes.
SUMALEE: Oh gosh. All right. Okay, she grabs her
smell bag real quick. Hold on!
MATT: Your choice.
SUMALEE: I'm going to save it until next time.
MATT: Okay. Since I actually skipped over Phil's
turn, Phil's going to, out of retribution for the
attack, swing towards you, Nila, having had no
luck against you, and having not even wanting to
touch this weird dwarven blur that's just
destroyed his friend. He's going to swing
towards you with the blade. That's going to be a
14? What's your armor class?
SUMALEE: 15.
MATT: 15? Your shield deflects it off the side. No
impact. All right. Phil's accepting his fate.
Nott, you're up.
SAM: Oh boy. Me against a barbarian? Has she
turned to--
ASHLY: Run for sure.
SAM: To see me?
LIAM: No. Stab and disengage.
MATT: She has noticed you, yes.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: She used her turn to move and dash, so had
no action yet. But went up against the front door,
hearing the sound from outside, and then turned
and just focused on you.
SAM: Fuck. I will-- Keg is what?
LIAM: Keg is right there to the bad guy. Am I
mistaken?
SAM: Oh, fuck that guy.
LIAM: But I mean, sneak attack damage--
SAM: He's got like two hit points. Fuck that guy.
I'm going to try to disable the giant, larger
threat than Phil, which probably won't work, but
it's worth a shot. I will point at the barbarian
and say: Oi, I'm thinking of removing my spine
because it's only holding me back! I will cast
Hideous Laughter on the giant thing.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: 14.
MATT: 14 wisdom saving throw. That's a natural
six. Falls prone.
SAM: Yes!
ASHLY: She's prone!
SAM: I took out the barbarian, guys.
MARISHA: Well, she's prone.
LIAM: I didn't even see the miniature beyond the
door. I didn't know she was there.
MATT: She falls cackling to the ground. (laughter)
and is rolling on the ground, the blade falling
out of her grip for the moment and then she
clutches it back to her, rolls with it.
SAM: Oh, she has it?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Tight tight tight.
SAM: Cool cool cool. Tasha's: at the end of its
turn, it can make a wisdom saving throw. Hold on.
Okay. I'm going to get out of there, run past the
laughing thing.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: As fast as I can. Oh, not that way, the other
way.
MATT: That's fine. (counting)
SAM: Yeah. Do I try to get her weapon or do I keep
running? She's clutching it, still, you said?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: So it'd be like a strength check. I'm just
going to keep running. Another 30 feet.
MATT: Which direction? Around here?
SAM: Yeah. Well, because I'm still trying to get
where the spider told me to go.
MATT: (counting) There you go.
MARISHA: As Nott comes around the corner, I'm just
going to go: Hey! Psst!
SAM: Huh? Ah!
MARISHA: (shushing)
MATT: That finishes Nott's go. Clay, you're up.
TALIESIN: Another 60 feet.
MATT: Are you jumping off the wall or going full
square on the outer wall?
TALIESIN: I'll jump off the wall.
MATT: Make an acrobatics check to try and land.
TALIESIN: Ooh, that's 14.
MATT: 14? Okay, you fall to one knee, but you get
up okay. You don't take any damage.
LIAM: He's just that good.
MATT: (counting) 30. You're just coming up on the
outside of the kitchen. The horse is just (snorting).
TALIESIN: Hey, big guy.
MARISHA: "Hey, big guy!"
SAM: This guy!
TALIESIN: How could you be angry at a horse, man?
It's not like this is an evil horse.
LIAM: It's Jeff Bridges in The Big Lebowski.
TALIESIN: It's not that far off.
MATT: That finishes Clay's turn. Keg, you're up.
ASHLY: I'm still Hasted, yes?
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLY: Okay, great. So I'm going to smack Phil.
MATT: Go for it.
ASHLY: That is 18.
MATT: 18 definitely hits.
ASHLY: And nine?
MATT: Nine points of damage?
ASHLY: Yeah.
MATT: Phil is down. Whack up the side of the
head. Phil just crumples to the ground.
ASHLY: Sorry, Phil! I'm going to run. Can I catch
up to Nott?
LIAM and ASHLY: 50 feet of movement.
ASHLY: 50 feet of movement.
SAM: Did you see where I went?
LIAM: Bing bang bong bing bong bing bong!
MATT: (counting) You have ten more feet. You can't
quite get to Nott, but there's a laughing
barbarian on the ground.
ASHLY: I could dash, right?
LIAM: She's on the ground, though, and she is out
of it so you could fucking Goodfellas the shit
out of that woman.
ASHLY: All right.
MATT: Up to you.
LIAM: Or whatever. Whatever you want.
ASHLY: Okay. Yeah yeah yeah. Oh, I feel bad! I was
kind of friends with her back in the day. Okay,
we'll do it.
MATT: So the dwarf moves into there.
ASHLY: I teabag her for roughly 15 minutes and
then I-- hastily. All right, here we go. Fuck.
SAM: I think you may get advantage because she's
prone.
MATT: Yeah, it's advantage on the attack.
ASHLY: Oh, okay, great. 11.
MATT: 11? No.
MARISHA: Is her AC down?
MATT: Nope. The first attack, you go to swing and
she rolls over from the laughter and just hit the
ground. The stone cracks from the impact.
ASHLY: So I have two more actions.
MATT: Yeah, because that was your second attack.
Then you have your extra attack, and then you have
a bonus attack.
SAM: Oh my god.
ASHLY: I'm Hasted, right?
MATT: That's how you have an additional attack. So
you have two more attacks.
ASHLY: Try again. So 20?
MATT: 20 definitely hits.
SAM: Still advantage on the attack, right?
MATT: Yep.
TALIESIN: Roll again in case you crit.
ASHLY: Okay, no, 20, and then--
MATT: All right, roll damage on that.
ASHLY: Ten.
TALIESIN: Is it an auto--
MATT: She makes a saving throw.
TALIESIN: I mean is it advantage?
LIAM: It is advantage, but it's not an auto crit.
MATT: What is the DC? She rolled a 14.
SAM: 14.
MATT: Yeah, that spell has faded.
SAM: Oh no. But you can still attack one more
time, right?
MATT: She's still prone and you get another
attack, if you like.
ASHLY: Okay.
LIAM: Get that motherfucker. Get it get it, girl,
get it get it.
ASHLY: I don't get advantage anymore, right?
MATT: You still have advantage, she's still
prone.
ASHLY: Oh, she's still prone, okay.
SAM: Fuck you!
ASHLY: 14?
MARISHA: Barbarian, 14?
MATT: 14 does not hit. It misses by one.
SAM: Those dice are terrible!
MATT: I'm sorry. However, you are just a
frightening display in front of her.
ASHLY: Now I'm going to action surge.
MARISHA: Ooh! Yaaas, girl, yaaas!
ASHLY: Shit! All right, 17!
MATT: That does hit.
ASHLY: Oh my god, Jesus Christ almighty. 11
damage.
MATT: 11 points of damage, all right. You have one
more attack from the action surge.
SAM: Another one?
ASHLY: Oh fuck yes, okay. Come on, baby. 20!
(cheering)
SAM: It took six attacks!
ASHLY: So what happens when I crit?
MATT: Roll your dice and double it.
ASHLY: Double the dice. So then that's five--
MATT: That's ten. Ten plus your modifier.
ASHLY: Ten plus my mod-- 14.
MATT: 14 points of damage.
ASHLY: But then I roll--?
LIAM: What is it normally?
ASHLY: A 1d8 plus four.
MATT: You rolled a five, you double that to ten
and then add the four. So 14 damage on a single
hit. With that one final burst of interior
strength and adrenaline kicks in and you slam
twice into the body of Wohn on the ground, the
wind knocked out of her. Her eyes go wild for a
second before focusing on you, the anger and
hatred brewing in her face as her brow furrows.
That, I believe, is all you can do on your turn.
TALIESIN: Do you have a little bit more--?
ASHLY: I've got ten more feet of movement?
(laughing) Okay, I'm going to try to get away from
her. I'm going to go--
LIAM: Zip!
ASHLY: You know I'm going to go back.
SAM: Yeah!
SUMALEE: Love it!
MATT: She does get an attack of opportunity on
you, swinging from the ground towards you. She is
prone so she has disadvantage on the attack roll,
but she's going to try. That's going to be 14?
ASHLY: No, doesn't hit.
MATT: Yeah. It clangs against the back of your
armor and you manage to get out of the way.
ASHLY: Whoa!
MATT: Top of the round is Beau!
MARISHA: Okay, where's Nott? Nott's over here?
MATT: Nott's right there on the other side.
MARISHA: I'm going to run around.
SAM: I fire three crossbow bolts.
MARISHA: That was my 40 feet?
MATT: Oh, 40 feet sorry.
MARISHA: I have 40. No, I'm getting to Nott.
MATT: There you go, that's your 40 feet.
MARISHA: I go-- (laughing)
SAM: Hey girl!
MARISHA: Holy shit!
MATT: By the way, in the background still
(fireworks exploding).
MARISHA: I did that.
SAM: Have you been treating Caleb well?
MARISHA: What? Do you need to get to the thing? To
pick the lock?
SAM: Yeah I think it's around that way? I don't
know.
MARISHA: Okay! I think I know where it is. I scoop
up Nott.
SAM: (yells)
MATT: All right, you're not quite against-- you're
ten feet from Nott right now.
MARISHA: Slap fight!
MATT: That's your full movement. You have to use a
dash action if you wanted to try and you move at
half speed carrying Nott.
LIAM: There's nobody to attack.
SAM: I have free will and I could follow you. Just
say, "Follow me."
MARISHA: But then we have to wait until your turn.
Or I could just scoop you up and drag you a little
bit and go that direction!
MATT: What are you going to do?
MARISHA: I'm going to do that! I'm going to dash.
MATT: You dash. That's five--
MARISHA: Come here!
SAM: (yells)
MATT: (counting) There you go. So you get Nott
about there.
SAM: Thanks.
MARISHA: I'm going to spend-- do I want to do
this? Yeah, I'm going to spend a ki point to do
that thing that makes me move fast. Step of the
Wind, yes.
LIAM: Cocaine.
MATT: (counting) You manage to drag Nott to the
door.
MARISHA: Can I open the door? Is there enough
room?
MATT: It's locked.
MARISHA: Locked. Okay, it's through this door,
though!
SAM: How do you know?
MARISHA: Because I ran by it earlier.
SAM: Oh, okay.
MARISHA: I remember from Nila describing it. I
took really detailed notes.
MATT: Caleb.
LIAM: Oh, my turn?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Oh jeez louise. Okay, I'm going to move
forward, back towards where I see Nila in there.
MATT: Ten, 15, 20.
LIAM: That's as far as I can go?
MATT: No, you can go two more steps if you want.
LIAM: I'm going to go towards Keg.
MATT: 30 right there.
LIAM: Yeah, and I may do nothing, but--
MATT: Damn, this new iPad is eating it on the
music.
SAM: What happened?
MATT: I think it's just slow. The old one
disappeared and I have to get a new one.
SAM: Disappeared, like was stolen?
MATT: I can't find the bag. It's fine. Don't worry
about it.
LIAM: DM, can I dance back and forth like this and
see what I can see through that doorway? Can I see
this one?
MATT: If you wanted to go there as opposed to
there, I'll let you stand there. You can just
barely see somebody on the ground.
LIAM: Oh look, there's somebody laughing and
giggling on the floor.
MATT: No longer laughing.
LIAM: Fire Bolt.
MATT: Go for it, roll for the attack with
disadvantage.
ASHLY: Big money!
LIAM: That is a 13.
MATT: Unfortunately strikes the stone ground and
bursts into fire. No effect.
LIAM: Done and done.
MATT: Ending Caleb's turn. (Wohn screams). Runs
up, charging angrily, is going to reckless attack.
Is going to attack twice with her greataxe against
you with reckless, so it's with advantage on both
attacks. The first attack is a natural 20. All
right, so that's a natural 20 on the first one.
Second attack is a natural 19 plus seven. So yeah,
she hits you with both. First one's a crit.
ASHLY: Jesus Christ all right.
MATT: That's cocked. That is going to be 12 points
of slashing damage for the first hit. The
greatsword ends up striking across your chest, the
impact sending you back and Haste disappears.
ASHLY, MARISHA, and SUMALEE: No!
LIAM: Wait, why? What?
MARISHA: Because she has Yasha's--
MATT: She has Yasha's sword and dispelled it.
LIAM: (gasps) You motherfucker, Matthew Mercer. We
will have words about the rules that exist.
MATT: Then swings back with a second strike
towards you and impacts.
LIAM: Wow.
MATT: That's going to be 13 points of slashing
damage. The second strike against you with the
greatsword, the flash of white energy, you see the
runes on the hilt suddenly spark and that
adrenaline in your body suddenly fades and your
body becomes super lethargic and you are stunned
for your next turn.
ASHLY: I'm stunned?!
MATT: The Haste has faded and your body is
drained.
LIAM: It's dispelled, but the stun still happens?
MATT: As soon as Haste ends, your body--
LIAM: That's some bullshit, Matthew.
MATT: That's how it works, that's the downside of
the spell, man!
LIAM: Whatever you say, but still that's some
bullshit.
ASHLY: So I just can't do anything on my next
turn.
MATT: Next turn you can't do anything.
LIAM: Yeah, it's wasted.
MATT: Nila, you're up.
SUMALEE: Okay.
ASHLY: Oh man, I'm going to get rocked.
SAM: Don't worry, you have a totally squishy
wizard standing behind you. He'll protect you.
(laughter)
SUMALEE: That's what I'm thinking. I'm thinking
yes, the wizard will protect Keg.
SAM and TALIESIN: Sure.
SUMALEE: I've got to go toward the trapdoor. Can
I go through that door?
MATT: Currently, you walk up and try the door.
It's locked.
SUMALEE: I don't have the strength to (grunts)?
MATT: Make a strength check. Roll a d20 and roll
your strength modifier.
MARISHA: Come on firbolg!
SUMALEE: 17?
MATT: Plus?
SUMALEE: Two!
MATT: Plus two? 19? You force your shoulder
against it and it doesn't give. The feeling and
the sensation of knowing your family is nearby
surges in your body and you pull back a few more
steps and then charge in. With one aggressive
(yells), the door flips open. The actual handle
itself breaking and snapping on the wood.
ASHLY: It's like a mom lifting a car.
MATT: Essentially. With a 19, that's exactly what
it is. That door is now open and you step through
and join the rest of them.
SAM: (yells)
MARISHA: No, Nott, no!
SAM: (yelling) Do you know Pumat Sol?
(laughter)
SUMALEE: Can I still cast or can I do a bonus
thing?
MATT: You can do a bonus action thing, yes, but
your action has been used to break through the door.
SUMALEE: Okay. Now I'm going to protect the three
of us, at least the three of us for now. Unless I
get Caleb too with the bear spirit totem.
MATT: You could drop it there. As a matter of
fact, everybody except for Keg and Clay.
SUMALEE: Ten extra hit points, advantage on
strength checks.
MATT: Ten temporary hit points.
SUMALEE: Temporary hit points, advantage on
strength and saving throws.
TALIESIN: Is it anybody who steps into that field
now, or is it just whoever's in the field when it drops?
MARISHA: Advantage on strength and what?
SUMALEE: Saving throws.
SAM: Wow.
LIAM: On all saving throws?
MATT: When the spirit appears, so you guys do not
get it, unfortunately.
TALIESIN: Okay, so you're still fucked. Goddamn
it.
MATT: So ten temporary hit points to Caleb, Nila,
Nott, and Beau for the next minute.
LIAM: The hit points are phenomenal.
SUMALEE: I could've done the hawk because of what
happened with Molly I--
MARISHA: No, this is great. You're great.
MATT: That ends Nila's turn. Nott you're up.
SAM: I'm going to try and pick this-- is the door
locked? Did we try the door? Did you try the door?
MARISHA: I did.
MATT: The door is locked, yes.
SAM: Okay, I will Mage Hand pick the lock as a
bonus action.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Terrible, 13.
MATT: The Mage Hand doesn't have the delicate
touch.
MARISHA: You have such bad luck with this.
SAM: I know. Action! I will also try to pick the
lock. Worse.
LIAM: Oh no! Come on!
MARISHA: This is how Molly died! You trying to
pick locks!
SAM: I know! I don't know what's wrong with me!
LIAM: Maybe if we offer Taliesin's new character
in exchange for our lives, we can get out of this.
ASHLY: No one's gotten attached to him yet,
right?
SUMALEE: I have! Nila has!
MATT: I kind of have, too.
TALIESIN: I can roll another one.
LIAM: You know you want to roll a halfling
sorcerer, come on!
MATT: So that's your action and your bonus action.
ASHLY: I'm attached, too.
SAM: That's all I can do, right? I can just move.
MATT: Yeah you can move, if you wish to.
SAM: There's nowhere to move, so I'll hang out by
the door, maybe try to tuck behind someone bigger
than me?
MATT: Okay. Clay, it's you and the horses. What
are you doing?
TALIESIN: I'm going to run in the door.
MATT: 15, 20.
TALIESIN: Okay, that's what I see? There's an open
door. I'm going to the open door.
LIAM: We just destroyed the door.
MATT: 30. You're so big, this was not designed for
his firbolg form.
TALIESIN: Hey, guys.
MATT: That's your movement.
TALIESIN: I don't see anything. I'm going to keep
running.
MATT: (counting) You walk into this chamber and
you see everybody else. You also see this weird
spectral bear spirit that seems to have apparated
in the center of this hallway that looks at you
and goes (bear growls).
TALIESIN: Hey. Can I see the barbarian through the
door?
MATT: You can! You glance over and take in the
scene. That's your movement and your action.
TALIESIN: So I only have a bonus?
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: Hold on. I'm learning how this works. I
can cast Healing Word.
MATT: You can, yeah.
TALIESIN: On you.
SAM: Phil?
TALIESIN: Yeah! No, on you, of course. I see that
this is going down and I'm going to cast a quick
Healing Word. That's--
MATT: A d4 plus your wisdom modifier.
TALIESIN: 1d4 plus my wisdom modifier.
SAM: A cleric who likes to heal? This is amazing.
TALIESIN: Six points immediately to you.
ASHLY: Okay, thank you.
LIAM and MARISHA: Okay, okay, okay.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: That's your turn?
TALIESIN: Yep, that's everything I've got.
MATT: Keg, you're up.
ASHLY: Well. Oh, I can--
MATT: You can't do anything because you're
stunned.
ASHLY: I'm stunned! Fuck, I forgot. Never mind!
MATT: That's the end of your turn. Top of the
round, Beau.
MARISHA: Oh! Okay, it's me.
LIAM: (singing) Welcome back.
MARISHA: Shit! What's the quickest way through?
Can I get through everybody and go this way? Yeah,
I'm going to do that. Excuse, me. Sorry. Pardon
me. Excuse me.
MATT: You're still 15 feet from Wohn.
MARISHA: Okay, can I step back a few feet? I don't
want to go that full movement, maybe on top of the
table. Can I get on top of the table?
MATT: If you want to be on there instead, yeah.
MARISHA: That's cool. I want to gauge it right
over Keg's shoulders and throw two darts.
MATT: Okay, you're going to attempt to ricochet
off of her armor. Go for it.
MARISHA: Over top of her shoulders to the giant
barbarian behind her? Hopefully?
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Or ricochet, whatever's the coolest.
MATT: I'm just embellishing for fun. Why not?
MARISHA: Yeah!
MATT: We'll see if it works.
MARISHA: Okay, first one: 17?
MATT: 17 hits. Actually, you have an advantage,
technically, because she was doing reckless
attacks last turn.
MARISHA: 13 on the higher one. That's a 20.
MATT: That hits. First one hits.
MARISHA: What do these do? These do a d8 damage?
These do monk or do these--?
MATT: These are the--
MARISHA: These are the-- no, these still do 1d4,
right?
MATT: These are still darts, they're modified
darts. You would need to get daggers or things
that are considered monk weapons to do additional
damage.
MARISHA: So the first one is crap. That's five
MATT: Five damage. Second one, with advantage
still.
MARISHA: My second one. 21.
MATT: 21 hits. Roll damage.
MARISHA: Ooh, that's better. Eight damage.
MATT: Five and eight. As you're there, getting
your brain back in the space and the strength
returns to you. You look up at the time the
barbarian is pulling back for another round of
blows, the giant blade still crimson with your own
blood. These two serrated blade-like discs into
her chest from over your shoulders. You glance
over quickly and see Beau waving to you through
the doorway.
ASHLY: I don't need to say it, but Keg is
aroused.
MATT: All righty, that finishes Beau's turn.
Caleb, you're up.
SAM: (singing) Lady boner!
MARISHA: I just give a wink.
SAM: Clang!
(laughter)
LIAM: Wow. I have a joke, I'm going to keep it in
my head. This is all going much worse than I
intended it to, so I am going to tug on the glove
and I'm going to slap it and send out three--
SAM: Is that the fly?
MARISHA: Fucking fly!
LIAM: Get him. Beauregard, you're the monk.
Scorching Ray, three times on the barbarian. First
one is shit.
MATT: Well, technically, you don't have advantage.
It's advantage on melee attacks, not ranged
attacks, but it's fine.
LIAM: Second is a 15. First is total shit, second
is a 15.
MATT: 15 hits.
LIAM: Third is better than that.
MATT: So two hits.
LIAM: That is eight for the first and eight for
the second.
MATT: Nice! Oof. That'll be enough. How do you
want to do this, Caleb?
MARISHA: Yes!
LIAM: I have had very bad luck with people's
skulls, so I am going to send the fire into her
thighs and legs and burn the bottom of her torso
and even the center of her being, her stomach, and
make it burn in upon itself and harden in
blackened crust.
SAM: Ugh!
MATT: She screams out in pain, the flesh itself
burning black instantly and cracking as she falls
to the ground screaming. The voice slowly thins
out into a faint (death rattle) before expiring.
Need you to make a wisdom saving throw, Caleb.
SAM: Wisdom saving-- oh, because fire.
LIAM: That's a 13.
MATT: 13. You take a moment, and push through, and
keep your wits about you.
LIAM: That's the first time I did that. First time
I did not go into a state.
SAM: Wow.
LIAM: (breathing heavily)
MARISHA: Beau turns around to Caleb and goes:
Damn, Caleb.
MATT: The firecrackers have ended. Silence comes
over the fortress.
SAM: Nobody else is coming?
MATT: None that you see or hear.
LIAM: Stay alert. We're not done here.
SAM: Go back to lock-a-pickin'?
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: I'm going to walk over to you and give
you some healing.
ASHLY: Oh, you are the best!
MATT: DC is getting higher with each.
SAM: 15.
MATT: Total of 15?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: It's not going through. This is a very
intricate lock. It's obviously protecting a lot.
SAM: Nila, I need you!
SUMALEE: Can I muscle my way through?
LIAM: Wait for me.
MATT: Make a strength check, if you want to. You
still have advantage on the strength checks
because you're a bear for the time being.
MARISHA: Do it! Yes! Okay, one more. Do a second
one.
MATT: Roll it one more time.
MARISHA: That's better?
SUMALEE: No.
MATT: The door is too strong. This one is actually
reinforced and seems to-- knowing what it's
hiding-- designed to be the strongest door on this
floor.
LIAM: Nott, wait for me.
TALIESIN: 12 points to you.
SAM: Come, quickly!
ASHLY: I follow too.
SAM: Everyone stand back! Caleb's going to do a
thing.
MARISHA: I'm going to watch this front door and
make sure no one else comes down the steps.
MATT: Over here?
MARISHA: No, here.
SAM: (stammering) Get the sword!
ASHLY: Oh, the sword? I'll grab the sword, then.
MARISHA: Yeah, get the sword. Sword in the
haversack.
MATT: Grab the sword. You pull the sheath off her
back and slip it in the haversack.
TALIESIN: Anything else worth checking?
MARISHA: What?
LIAM: Attune to the sword.
MARISHA: No, I'm putting it in the haversack.
ASHLY: Before I leave, could I investigate--
MARISHA: It's Yasha's sword.
ASHLY: --to see if I see anything else worth
taking?
MATT: If you'd like to. It takes a moment for you
to rifle through her stuff.
ASHLY: I'll do that. What is that check?
MATT: Investigation.
ASHLY: That's a 14.
MATT: 14? Okay. You manage to find about 38 gold
pieces in the pouch that she keeps on her side.
You find another pouch that is a bunch of dried
meats that have been salted and smoked, like a
jerky. You also find another pack that has teeth
in it. Just a collection of teeth. Different
sizes, different ages.
ASHLY: No keys or anything like that?
MATT: No keys.
ASHLY: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm going to start walking to any of the
dead bodies and-- or the unconscious people who
are not technically dead yet.
MATT: They've bled out.
TALIESIN: Oh, they bled out? All right, I'm going
to start using Thaumaturgy to start cooking them
away in a big pile of mold and mushrooms.
SAM: Ugh! What the fuck is wrong with you?
SUMALEE: He's just returning the bodies to their
natural state.
TALIESIN: Aw, it's nice to have someone who really
understands. It's the process.
SUMALEE: I understand.
SAM: Caleb!
LIAM: I will find Nott. Have you done everything
that you could here?
SAM: I'm sorry I couldn't get it open. I tried,
and I made noise, and I should've drunk more, is
what I should've done.
LIAM: We all should've drunk more. It is no shame
on you. I place my hand on the trapdoor--
MATT: Not on the trapdoor, the door that leads
into it.
LIAM: The door is locked?
MATT: The door is locked, yeah.
LIAM: I place my hand on the door and I cast
Knock.
MATT: (click, creaking) The door opens.
SAM: He's so amazing!
TALIESIN: Pretty good, yeah.
LIAM: I'm going to walk through and find that
trapdoor that I've already seen through Frumpkin's eyes.
MATT: All right. You go to the trapdoor.
SAM: Is it open? You want me to check it for
traps?
LIAM: Yes, please.
SAM: All right. I'll go check it for traps. That's
a 28. No, 26.
MATT: 26? It is trapped.
SAM: There's a trap!
MATT: From the underside of it.
LIAM: I back up about 15 feet out of this little
cubby.
MARISHA: From the underside.
SUMALEE: So if we open it, it will--
MARISHA: It'll hurt them.
SAM: Back up everybody, out of the room, and I'll
reach my mage hand around.
LIAM: A reach around.
SAM: A reach around. Give it a little tuggy with
the reach around. Just pull it. Pull it. Just tug
it until it explodes. Just reach around and tug it
until it explodes. Just keep on working it! Might
have to use the other hand for a while, that one's
getting tired, Matt!
(laughter)
SAM: Wait for the explosion!
MATT: Roll for reach around.
(laughter)
SAM: What am I rolling?
MATT: This is still another thieves' tools check,
so still plus seven.
SAM: Okay. 22 this time.
MATT: 22. That'll do it.
SUMALEE: Explosion!
LIAM: Your mother watches this show, right?
MATT: You manage to just lift the trapdoor enough
to slide your hand underneath. There is a trigger
cable underneath that has been set into a hook.
Right before it pulls taut enough for it to snap,
you grab it, lift it up, put it onto a shoulder.
Using the cable, you pull it back until you find a
piece of rock off to the side and hook it to it to
where it maintains the tautness. You find another
metal ring that is designed specifically to hold
the trap when it's not set. It does not go off.
The trapdoor opens, and there is a staircase that
descends to a lower floor.
SAM: See? Just easy as that.
LIAM: Is it open?
SAM: It's open. Let's go in.
LIAM: Open it. No. I hold up Frumpkin, I place him
on the edge of the trapdoor, and send him
scrambling under to look.
MATT: Okay. Make a perception check for Frumpkin.
MARISHA: I'm still watching this front area.
LIAM: 15.
MATT: 15? Okay. Frumpkin descends slowly down the
stairs. There's a faint bit of torchlight in
there. You hear whimpering. A few voices faintly
whimpering. Inside the chamber-- I can show you, actually.
SAM: Wait, what? No, you had the upstairs built,
Matt, you didn't have the downstairs built. That
would be too much.
MATT: I'll be right back.
(groaning)
SAM: Guys? D&amp;D Beyond.
LIAM: We learned so much.
SAM: We've learned so much about-- Hey Taliesin,
welcome back to the show!
TALIESIN: Thank you, it's great to be back.
MARISHA: Will you show off your shirt? It's a
little squishy.
TALIESIN: It's a little squishy.
SAM: "New character, who dis?" Aw, that's great!
LIAM: Last week, Taliesin was hanging like Tom
Cruise in a Mission: Impossible movie just above
the table waiting to drop in, and we all thought
it would happen near the end of the episode, but
it didn't. It didn't. How does it feel to finally
let that little bit of rope cut and be in the game again?
TALIESIN: I've got to say, it's been a little
nerve wracking coming in as someone new. It's very interesting.
LIAM: I like this guy.
TALIESIN: I like this guy, too.
MARISHA: I like this guy a lot.
ASHLY: He's awesome.
SAM: His voice is sexy.
ASHLY: He had such a great intro.
LIAM: I like pink more than purple, if I can say.
TALIESIN: I like it all, so I'm a fan.
MARISHA: Do you really like pink more than purple?
Like, as a person?
LIAM: Yes.
MARISHA: I can't tell if you're lying to me or
not.
LIAM: I like pink a little more than purple.
TALIESIN: I was very happy with the pink mohawk.
It was a very good mohawk. It was black-light reactive.
ASHLY: Really?
SAM: Oh, Matt's back!
MATT: So hi guys. Frumpkin slowly descends the
staircase, and you can see a rack that is bolted
into the wall that has chains hanging from it, a
few other sets of manacles, a few torture
implements: long metal things that are hooked at
the end, brands. There are a few spaces that are
currently empty where tools probably would
normally hang, and there is another door that
leads to a chamber beyond, and that's where you
hear the whimpering coming from.
LIAM: What I don't like about this is that the
asshole was sleeping upstairs and we don't know
about that at all, but I send Frumpkin along the
ceiling and through-- that looks like a barred gate.
MATT: As Frumpkin looks within, you can see
another chamber. You can see another hired figure,
at least the same cloaked individuals you had
encountered before, same attire, who is currently
sitting at the back, up against the wall, and is
looking in the direction of the door expectantly.
LIAM: I will attempt to send Frumpkin over his
head along the ceiling stealthily.
MATT: Make a stealth check for Frumpkin. Frumpkin
also noticed there is a cage in the corner that
contains two figures in there. Looks to be two
humanoid figures.
LIAM: Humanoid, that's it?
MATT: With that perception roll and the low light,
it's hard to tell. One appears to be larger, one
appears to be smaller.
SAM: Yasha and Jester,
LIAM: I'm going to keep going and you said roll--
MATT: Make a stealth check.
LIAM: Very good, that is a 19.
MATT: Okay. Unnoticing, he sits there waiting, arm
against the wall. Frumpkin slowly makes his way
through this hallway. It bends off on a corner
around the side. Frumpkin continues beyond and it
curves around another corner here. There is an
archway that leads into another room that has two
more cages that contain-- each cage contains
another figure. The figures in there appear to be
slumped down and either unconscious or sleeping.
LIAM: Yeah, he pauses, he's looking for green or
blue or goth.
MATT: Here?
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: You see Ruzza and Protto, two more members
of The Iron Shepherds that are currently waiting
there with their eyes towards the entryway
expectantly. It seems that they have been notified
of your presence.
SAM: How?
MATT: I don't know, maybe the loud firecrackers
going off right above?
TALIESIN: What do they do, those two? What do
those two do?
SAM: They're bad. One's a magic person.
LIAM: So would Frumpkin be at the edge of that
gate?
MATT: Frumpkin would be here.
LIAM: I rolled a 19 last we checked and that was
20 seconds ago.
MATT: As they're both standing there waiting,
Protto, the little halfling sharpshooter creep,
glances up and goes, takes his shortbow and--
LIAM: Do I see this?
MATT: Pulls it off his shoulder. Mm-hmm.
LIAM: (popping)
MATT: Yeah, that's the last you see.
LIAM: There are more people down there. This is
the x-factor we spoke about.
MARISHA: How many?
LIAM: I saw two down there, correct?
ASHLY: Three, right?
MATT: One in that chamber and then two in there.
LIAM: Right, but I mean in that last room.
MATT: In that last room it was two.
LIAM: And I did not see Lazlo, so he could be
upstairs.
SAM: Lorenzo.
LIAM: No, it's Lazlo, I'm pretty sure.
(laughter)
LIAM: I didn't see el boogie down there so he
could be upstairs or downstairs, is what I'm saying.
SAM: But then you saw some prisoners?
ASHLY: Dwelma's dead, we just beat the barbarian,
Protto and Ruzza are down there, that means
Lorenzo is upstairs, unless he's--
SAM: Or somewhere.
LIAM: We do not know that. We know that there is
one random shithead and two more beyond that, and
I did not see Lorenzo or Lazlo or Larkin.
ASHLY: Lorenzo.
MARISHA: So he's either still upstairs or deeper,
further.
LIAM: Yeah, he's either behind us or down below.
MARISHA: Or he's not here at all and he's at the
bar that he likes to hang out at--
SAM: The Trench.
MARISHA: Called The Trench. Fuck you. So close, I
was almost there.
SUMALEE: What about prisoners?
LIAM: Ja, there were some people in cages, but I
did not get a good look at them through my
spider's eyes.
SAM: We can't close this door that Nila just
exploded, but we can put up some sort of person to
watch so some of us can go down there and snoop
around and maybe kill that one guard that you spotted.
LIAM: Here is what I think: We have a bit of a
bottleneck here at this trapdoor. If they want to
come up they have to deal with us, ja?
SAM: Yes.
LIAM: So if the majority of us wait at this trap
door and I send my spider upstairs to see what's
going on, to see if our friend is up there, we can
learn about upstairs, and if anyone pokes their
head out of that door they're going to lose it.
ASHLY: That seems like a good plan to me.
LIAM: Let's keep figuring things out.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: All right. So are you sending Frumpkin
upstairs?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Any ideas, Mr. Clay?
TALIESIN: Well, I mean, could just ask him to open
the door. The ruckus has stopped and obviously,
somebody won this fight.
MARISHA: We have the trapdoor open though,
right?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: But the gate down there?
TALIESIN: I can do that if you like.
MARISHA: How about, everyone get ready?
LIAM: Close it quietly, and if anyone has a look
around--
TALIESIN: I can just go down and ask. I was going
to mention, I do look like a guard right now.
MARISHA: You do. So do I. We still look like
guards.
TALIESIN: I'm grabbing a little muck, putting it
on my face, getting all-- I could just go down if you like.
MARISHA: Why don't we bring this guard up here to
us?
LIAM: Wait, it's true, you look like one of the
guys upstairs, you could go down and tell them.
But, well, you are putting a lot on the line for
people you've just met tonight.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's okay.
LIAM: Yeah?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: Why don't we handle this guard first, and
I go, here, lift up the gate. Lift up the trapdoor.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go down.
MARISHA: You're going down?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: You don't want to bring him up? Okay.
MATT: So you go ahead and descend the stairs into
this chamber.
LIAM: Simultaneously, Caleb will slap his hand
down on Keg's shoulder and send Frumpkin on the
ceiling or on the first floor, towards the
stairwell at the front of the building.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: I'm going to go down with Clay, but just
at the stairs, since I also look like a guard.
MATT: Okay. So you stay at the stairs there,
Beau.
MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: All right. As you glance through, Clay, you
can see the faint light in here, you can see the
figure's walking up to the cage, eyes still
trained on the door.
TALIESIN: I'm just tapping on the doors. All
clear. We got one, it's Keg. We'll handle it. I'm
going to head back upstairs.
MATT: Make a deception check.
TALIESIN: All right.
MARISHA: Does he have advantage?
MATT: No. It's allowing him to do one--
TALIESIN: That's cocked.
SAM: That was cocked.
MATT: I saw it.
TALIESIN: 18.
MATT: 18?
TALIESIN: I'm going to start heading back up.
MATT: "All right, I'll get back to work."
TALIESIN: We could use your help up here if you
got a second.
MATT: "I'm going to finish up." As you turn around
and begin to ascend the stairs, you begin to hear
what sounds like a child beginning to scream.
(screams)
MARISHA: I tap on the bars with my staff, and I
go: Wait man, Phil, there's something wrong with
Phil, I think he really needs our help. Fucking
Phil, am I right?
MATT: Make a deception check.
LIAM: Roll fucking high, Marisha.
MARISHA: I'm not gambling for torturing children.
LIAM: Oh my god.
(cheering)
MARISHA: 21!
SAM: Fucking Phil.
LIAM: Phil, am I right?
MATT: He pulls back. You can see there's a heated
spike that's orange at the tip that he pulls out
of the cage. He goes (growling).
TALIESIN: I'm going to head upstairs.
MARISHA: I hate it when Phil ruins torturing
hour.
MATT: He steps back towards the table at the back
and sets it down there, where you can see there are
other implements laid out. He comes back to the
cage and goes, "I'll be back later," and comes to
the door where you are.
MARISHA: I step to the side, let him unlock the
door.
TALIESIN: I'm heading up.
MATT: Opens the door.
TALIESIN: As I head up through the trapdoor, I'm
like, get ready everyone, just when he comes up,
and just walking a little way past.
MARISHA: I go: Just follow him.
MATT: Steps up the stairs, makes it up through the
hatch.
SAM: Everybody--
MARISHA: Go!
MATT: Everybody, make an ambush round. He was not
expecting that.
LIAM: Caleb is not here; he is in the spider.
MARISHA: First, you celebrate.
MATT: Oh, shit. Is this on your Shillelagh? What
are you doing with this?
SUMALEE: Yeah!
MATT: Okay.
ASHLY: 19.
SAM: 15.
LIAM: Spidering.
TALIESIN: Never done this before. 17 plus
something.
MATT: Yeah, you all hit. What are you doing?
MARISHA: Oh, I don't think I hit.
MATT: Nah.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: All right, roll your d8.
SUMALEE: d8 is--
MATT: Eight-sided.
SUMALEE: Six.
MATT: That's 12 plus four, 16 points of damage.
Whack! Upside the head as he dizzies off from that
point, immediately going into Keg. Roll damage on
that one.
ASHLY: Six.
MATT: Six damage, and carved from the battle axe.
TALIESIN: Is it just a straight 1d6 plus nothing?
MATT: What are you using?
TALIESIN: I was using the staff.
MATT: It's a 1d8.
TALIESIN: Oh, it's 1d8.
MATT: Yeah, because it's a quarterstaff.
TALIESIN: Eight.
MATT: Plus your strength modifier?
TALIESIN: Seven, because I have my strength
modifier-- no, eight, just because I have no
strength modifier.
MATT: Crack! And then--
SAM: Is this a surprise?
MATT: It's a sneak attack, yeah.
(gasping)
SAM: Seven plus six, 13, plus-- I've been adding
wrong. 18.
MATT: Yeah, that'll do it. He comes up and
immediately-- and falls to the ground, barely
conscious, looking up, his face bloodied and the
crossbow bolt jammed into his shoulder and past
the rib and he's having a hard time breathing.
TALIESIN: Oh, no. Just going to turn him into
mulch. That's okay.
(laughter)
MATT: You watch as Clay, hushing as he just slowly
pushes his face in with his fist repeatedly.
TALIESIN: I'm going to drag him back. We got another
suit, if anyone wants one.
ASHLY: Well Nila, you can disguise yourself,
right?
NILA: Yes.
ASHLY: We could have two guards.
MATT: Caleb, what are you doing?
LIAM: Frumpkin is still climbing towards the
stairwell up and I am computing everything that
our druid friend told me about the stairs to see
if Big Man is asleep in his room.
MATT: So you coast around here--
SAM: All the maps!
TALIESIN and LIAM: (singing) So many maps!
MATT: Make your way through, down this hall, to
the bedroom where you had seen was Lorenzo's room,
not present. Crawls over to the next bedroom, two
beds. Not present.
LIAM: I tell you what I'm going to do.
MARISHA: This fucker's not here.
LIAM: I'm at the top of these stairs. Boy, it's
hard to say because the map is gone, but I think
what I will do is I'll drop out of Frumpkin for a
moment and I have 30 feet of movement, so I will
walk 25 feet towards those stairs.
MATT: Toward the stairs where Frumpkin was?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Yeah, towards the second floor.
MATT: All right. You're at the base, essentially,
or near the staircase that leads up and out to
this space there.
LIAM: Oh wow. If I'm able, I will stand on my own
and go back into Frumpkin and wait because he is
far ahead of me, Frumpkin, and my friends are
mostly behind me, but I'm okay.
MATT: All right. What's everybody else doing?
SAM: The gate's open.
SUMALEE: I want to go down.
ASHLY: I feel like I want to stay with Caleb, in
case.
MATT: Okay, so Keg is staying up with Caleb.
ASHLY: Is that cool with you, Caleb?
SAM: I'll go with you, Nila.
LIAM: I can't hear anything.
MATT: Nila, you head down.
ASHLY: Well, I'm going to stand behind you, in
case.
LIAM: Oh, that's great.
SUMALEE: Come join us.
TALIESIN: I'll come down with you, that's fine.
LIAM: Do I feel you next to me?
ASHLY: Yeah, maybe I'll put my hand on you?
LIAM: Do I? If I feel the dwarf next to me, I
would use a free hand to jam some licorice back
into my mouth and start chewing furiously,
anxiously. I'm so scared of everything. And cast
Haste again, into the dwarf.
ASHLY: Tight.
MATT: Okay, so you have one minute before that
spell goes away.
LIAM: One minute, ja. I know. You are again on
methamphetamines.
ASHLY: Perfect.
MATT: Okay. As you enter this lower chamber, you
come in with a fair light. You look over on the
table and there are the implements there. You step
out and there is a moment where you touch your
foot to the ground, and something gives way. You
see a cable that was run through the ground
quickly whip up the air, and you glance up to see
heavy netting that contains a bunch of broken
brick and stone that falls down from the center of
the chamber. I need both Nott and Nila to make
dexterity saving throws, please.
SAM: We're not still under the influence of any
sort of thing?
MATT: It only lasts a-- nice.
SUMALEE: 21.
SAM: 11.
MATT: 11. That's a failure on your point. That is
eight points of bludgeoning damage to you, four
points to you, as this pile of stone fills the
corner. You guys manage to step off to the side
and pull yourself out of the rubble, but you get
the sense now that this room is definitely trapped
and there is definitely an awareness within and
deeper of your presence. Nila, as you recover from
this, you glance up and see the cage in the corner
that you had passed when you first entered and you
see a hand hanging off one of the metal bars-- a
tiny, familiar hand: a bit of fur that covers
and vanishing into the faint, grayish-blue tint of
what is Asar's hand.
SUMALEE: I want to go to him, to touch him-- but I
want to make sure that there's nothing that is
going to trigger something else.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SUMALEE: Oh! I'm so nervous! 19?
MATT and MARISHA: That's cocked.
SUMALEE: (groans)
MARISHA: Yeah, sorry. It was almost good.
SUMALEE: Eight.
MATT: Plus?
SUMALEE: Plus my, which check?
MATT: Investigation.
SUMALEE: Nine-- oh, no, minus one. Seven, shit.
Should I use my luck point now?
LIAM: No, your luck is dead.
MATT: No, she didn't use it last time, she saved
it--
LIAM: Oh, you saved it! (inhales)
SUMALEE: I have to.
MATT: All right, go for it.
(groans)
LIAM: Oh, no! It's a one!
SAM: Kid's dead, let's go home.
MATT: Well, you still pick the one you want to, so
you go with the previous one. You don't have to pick
the one. Pretty sure that's how the luck feat
works, right?
LIAM: That's right. Whatever one you want.
MATT: From best you can tell, there is nothing; no
contraption adhered to the cage. It's just a cage.
You come up close and look inside. You can see
Kitor, your partner, is slumped in the back of the
cage, unconscious. With what little bit of light is
in here as you focus-- you have darkvision, so you
can see in his unconscious face he is still
breathing, but there are wounds and scrapes. You
look and see Asar, who is awake, who is currently
holding a burn puncture right in his abdomen. He
looks up to you, the sweat dripping down his face,
and goes, "Mama? Mama!" and leans up to the cage
and puts his hand over the outside of the bar and
reaches out for you with the other hand and
entwines his fingers. "Mama, you came."
SUMALEE: I'm here. Mama's here. I want to heal
them. Can I heal them?
MATT: If you have a heal spell, yeah.
SUMALEE: I have Healing Word.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: (quietly) I don't like it.
MATT: What's your healing word to your son?
SUMALEE: (quickly reading under breath)
MATT: What's the word you say that heals him?
SUMALEE: Oh, what's the word I say, I'm sorry.
MATT: What phrase? It's up to you.
SUMALEE: Be well. Be well, my son.
MATT: Roll a d4.
MARISHA: That's pretty good. It's three.
SUMALEE: Three? Did that count?
MATT: Sure, I'll let it. It's all right.
MARISHA: Plus your wisdom modifier.
MATT: I think it's a plus four? Yeah, okay.
Looking really hurt from whatever injuries he's
sustained, you watch as the injuries slowly close
up and he breathes a little heartier again and
looks at you with a renewed smile, his hand still
entwining your fingers, and says, "Mama, I want to
"go home."
SUMALEE: I'll bring you home. We're going to get
you out of here. I grab that cage and try to pull
it apart as much as I can.
SAM: Let me try to unlock it.
(laughing)
MATT: Well, make a strength check, just for the
hell of it. Because life gets weird.
MARISHA: While this is happening, can I come and
watch this corridor?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm going to come in the corridor
as well.
MARISHA: I'm going to suck up against this wall
and look to make sure no one is coming around that
hall while this is happening.
TALIESIN: Since I still look like a soldier, I'm
going to be willing to be a little visible on the corner.
MARISHA: Yeah, actually, we both look like
soldiers. We block this corridor, looking like soldiers.
MATT: Okay, you move into the corridor?
MARISHA: Just backs to that corridor in this
room.
MATT: Like this?
MARISHA: Yup, like we're watching-- guarding this
room together.
SUMALEE: Strength check, 19 plus two.
SAM: Wow.
MATT: You begin to (strains)-- and you watch as
Nila's arms pop with the muscles filling with
adrenaline and emotion as the metal bars bend ever
so slightly. Just enough to maybe fit Asar
through-- not your mate. You pull them just enough
and you reach through and he pulls his way, and
you help him grab his shoulder, and slowly you
pull your son free from the cage and into your arms.
SUMALEE: (sobs) I hug him again. I want to go, I
want to run. I don't know what to do. I look
inside and see if there's any way that I can pull
further to get Kitor out too.
MATT: The bars have gone as far as they can go,
and you continue to pull, the emotion in there.
Your strength is waning from the physical exertion
of getting even that bit of the metal open.
SUMALEE: Can I heal him? I know he has powers to
help himself out of here if I heal him.
MATT: You can try, yeah.
SAM: While she does that, I'll try to jimmy the
bent lock.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: Yeah, that's a one.
(laughing)
MATT: Sam!
MARISHA: You're supposed to be good at this!
MATT: Buddy...
SAM: You ruined the fucking lock!
(laughter)
SAM: You bent it!
SUMALEE: You can't blame the mother!
MATT: Roll for Healing Word.
TALIESIN: Just for my own giggles, I'm going to
cast Detect Magic really quickly, because this
place is giving me the creeps.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: I have an auto-thing I can do
apparently, which is nuts.
MATT: I'm going to need a new iPad. This thing is
crashing and falling apart the whole night. Great job.
SAM: I'm going to look around for keys or
something. Just around the room.
MATT: All right. Make an investigation check.
SAM: That's a one.
ASHLY: Oh my god. You need to use a new one.
MARISHA: Did you just roll two ones in a row?
MATT: Sam, we're not making money for charity. You
can slow your roll here, buddy.
SAM: 826LA, guys!
SUMALEE: Do I roll this for--?
MATT: Yeah, to heal.
TALIESIN: I'm going to cast Detect Magic as a
racial trait, which apparently is a thing you can do.
SAM: Wow.
TALIESIN: Firbolgs are amazing.
SAM: Any magic?
MATT: In the immediate chamber?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: Focusing on this, you don't sense any
immediate magical auras within the chamber.
TALIESIN: All right. How about within 30 feet. Am
I getting a ping?
MATT: Nothing that you can see in the immediate
area, no.
SUMALEE: Five.
MATT: You watch as Kitor (rouses). One eye is
swollen shut, the other opens a bit, and you watch
as the swelling slowly goes away from that eye.
It's still purple from the outside, but the
swelling has diminished from the healing effect of
your spell, and he looks up. "My mate." He looks
down at his hands and looks out and sees that
Asar's been freed, and he looks out at the strange
crew-- looks towards both of you and (gasps).
SUMALEE: It's okay, they're safe. They came to
help. Can you get out?
MATT: "Help me."
SUMALEE: How? Tell me.
MATT: He stands up in the cage; his hunched form
is crammed in by this cage that was not designed
for his firbolg body. Nevertheless, he reaches out
and grabs the bars where you had started. "On
"three: one, two, three-- (strains)." He's going to
go ahead and make a strength check with advantage.
That's a natural 17... and a natural 19! I love it
when it works for the narrative!
(laughing)
MATT: That puts it over 20. Both of you together
(strains), and one of the bars comes off on one
side. He gets in quickly and puts his shoulder in
and pushes against the other, and that bends off
to the side, leaving just enough room for him to
push through. It takes a minute and you're helping
him and grabbing his elbow, and the two of your
together-- You feel something pop in his shoulder,
but it's just enough to get his body to wedge out
of the space, and he comes back out of it and
embraces you-- the other arm limply hanging at one
side, but he takes you in his hand. He looks down
at his son and looks over at the rest of you,
tired. Still, amongst the trauma he has suffered,
there is a pride and a silent strength to him--
very much similar to that you've seen in Nila. "I
do not know by what grace you've come to us, but
thank you."
MARISHA: Well, we relied on your mate here.
Couldn't have done it without her.
SAM: Yeah, she's quite impressive.
MATT: "That she is," and pets the back of your
head.
MARISHA: Now, if I was you, I'd run.
SUMALEE: What about your friends?
MARISHA: You have a child with you. You need to
get him out of here. He's suffered enough. We've
got it from here.
SUMALEE: Thank you.
MARISHA: We wouldn't have gotten this far without
you.
SUMALEE: Clay?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SUMALEE: We'll go back to your temple. Will you
help these people-- will you help these friends?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I like what's happening here.
Here, come on. Give me a hug.
SUMALEE: Nila gives him a big hug.
TALIESIN: Some tea for the road. I've got a bit of
it left.
(laughing)
SAM: Is it already steeped, or is that just the--
TALIESIN: No, it's just loose leaf.
SAM: Oh, okay.
TALIESIN: It's not a bag. It's just loose leaf.
MATT: Kitor picks up Asar and throws him over his
shoulder, now standing in his full form, just
below the ceiling of this chamber-- taller, even,
than Clay. "Thank you. Let's go home."
TALIESIN: See you soon.
MARISHA: We'll see you later.
SUMALEE: Oh, before I forget. Nila wears a
necklace of six red feathers. Four of these
feathers were people from my tribe who were taken:
one for Kitor, one for Asar, one for Duma, and one
for-- oh, shoot. So emotional, but I know it--
Duma and Masag. Masag was one of our strongest.
They took him too, and Duma was the little one
that Jumnda mentioned. One feather was for me, for
leaving my tribe to find my family, and I took an
extra one because I thought I would find friends
who might help me. I will give it to you. I undo
the feather, pull it off; it's a perfectly intact
red feather. I don't know who will take it, but if
you ever need our help, you can come to the
temple. If, by chance, we're not there-- but only
because one of us would go back to check on the
others of our tribe-- we'll be in the Crispvale
Thicket. Just go where the moss is the thickest,
and I'll be there. Thank you for everything. Thank
you so much.
MARISHA: We'll find you again, Nila.
SUMALEE: Thank you. Let's go.
MATT: "Good luck."
SAM: Bye.
MATT: You watch as the three of them, given a
second chance at life and freedom, step through
the door where you entered and vanish up the
stairs, the heavy footfalls dissipating as they
grow further and further from you. The two of you,
who have been focusing-- that point, the Haste
spell having coursed into your body-- glance
behind and see as the family steps through the
kitchen door and exits. There's only one path left
to find the others that were taken. And that's
where we'll leave tonight's game.
SAM: (groans)
TALIESIN: This was the best.
SUMALEE: Thank you guys so much!
ASHLY: Sumalee!
MARISHA: Sumalee!
SUMALEE: You guys rock!
MATT: Thank you for playing with us!
SUMALEE: This was such an amazing experience.
MARISHA: One red Nila feather.
TALIESIN: (as "The Twelve Days of Christmas") Five
gold coins!
LIAM: I have so much murder in my eye right now.
TALIESIN: I love this color, by the way, that
we're getting right now. That's lovely.
MATT: It's a fun one, yeah.
ASHLY: That was beautiful.
MARISHA: That was so amazing!
SUMALEE: Thank you guys for having me!
TALIESIN: You were so much fun!
MATT: Thank you for coming. You were amazing.
SUMALEE: Thank you guys. This has been
mindblowingly fun. It's so easy to get into with
all of you guys being so-- embodying your
characters so well. It just is so easy.
MATT: It's the best game. It's the best game!
SUMALEE: I had so much fun. Oh my gosh.
MARISHA: You were the softness that we needed--
ASHLY: Desperately.
MARISHA: --in our group. Desperately.
LIAM: What do you mean?
MATT: Everything fits so well into place.
MARISHA: She was the Charmin bear, and we were
like... rocks? I don't know, that's all I got.
LIAM: Things are really bad in the Mighty Nein
when Nott is the soft member of the group.
MARISHA: That's true!
MATT: Yeah. Aw, man, we get to pick up this next
phase at GenCon.
SAM: We're going to be doing this live next time?
MATT: Apparently, yeah.
SAM: Holy moley.
MATT: This is where we got to. Oh man.
TALIESIN: Exciting!
MATT: Oh, boy, that's going to be fun.
LIAM: See player characters killed live in
Indianapolis!
TALIESIN: Are you not entertained?!
SUMALEE: Seriously, thank you for introducing me
to this game. I mean it.
SAM: You were so great.
SUMALEE: Now I understand why people that I know
play this game--
LIAM: Sumalee. Sam and I were talking about
bullshit before the beginning of the game, and I
forget the context but he was talking about you
and I said, "No, she's never played. She played
"one practice game before this," and Sam's brain
went (explosion).
SAM: You were so great, so confident, so much
great roleplaying. Amazing.
SUMALEE: I learned from you guys. I learned by
watching you! Yeah, I played one... what do you
call it, a one-off? It was a three hour one-off.
SAM: With Matt?
SUMALEE: No, a dear, dear friend of mine, Tom
Lommel, ran-- he pulled in some friends so I would
have some sense, because I didn't want to-- he was
like, "Your first game is going to be on Critical
"Role? You need to come over and we'll play one
practice round."
MATT: No, you've been so great, thank you for
joining us, seriously. And for bringing a
character that I think all of us are absolutely in
love with.
SUMALEE: And now there's a firbolg! I feel like
leaving--
SAM: Passing the torch.
MARISHA: Passing the torch!
MATT: Well. On that note, let's go ahead and close
tonight's game--
SUMALEE: Oh, was all that-- that was all
recorded?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SUMALEE: Oh, we're still on?
MATT: Yeah! No, we're still on.
(laughter)
SUMALEE: I thought we were done!
MATT: No, we're still going!
SAM: We're still on the TV.
LIAM: No no no, we're not. They cut the stream.
Tell us about your politics.
SUMALEE: I totally believed you. I was like "Oh,
wait, are we?"
MATT: Aw. Thank you so much for joining us; you're
amazing. I've been wanting to have you on for a
while, so I'm glad we could make it work.
SUMALEE: Thank you so much.
MATT: A pleasure. We pick up this live at GenCon
next Friday, at 6:00pm Pacific, 9:00pm Eastern.
Super excited for that. Until then, guys, have a
wonderful week, we love you, and is it Thursday--
or Friday yet? Good night!
[music]